######## Annex A (informative): Connection Diagrams

##### Definition of Terms {#definition-of-terms .H6}

**System Simulator or SS** -- A device or system, that is capable of
generating simulated Node B signalling and analysing UE signalling
responses on one or more RF channels, in order to create the required
test environment for the UE under test. It will also include the
following capabilities:

1\. Measurement and control of the UE Tx output power through TPC
commands

2\. Measurement of Rx BLER and BER

3\. Measurement of signalling timing and delays

4\. Ability to simulate UTRAN and/or GERAN signalling

**Test System** -- A combination of devices brought together into a
system for the purpose of making one or more measurements on a UE in
accordance with the test case requirements. A test system may include
one or more System Simulators if additional signalling is required for
the test case. The following diagrams are all examples of Test Systems.

NOTE: The above terms are logical definitions to be used to describe the
test methods used in this document (TS34.121), in practice, real devices
called \'System Simulators\' may also include additional measurement
capabilities or may only support those features required for the test
cases they are designed to perform.

![](media/image1.wmf){width="5.391666666666667in"
height="2.2083333333333335in"}

Figure A.1: Connection for basic single cell tests

![](media/image2.wmf){width="5.183333333333334in"
height="2.803472222222222in"}

Figure A.2: Connection for Transmitter Intermodulation tests

Figure A.3: Void

![](media/image3.wmf){width="5.391666666666667in"
height="2.703472222222222in"}

Figure A.4: Connection for Receiver tests with Interference

Figure A.5: Connection for Receiver tests with Interference or
additional CW signal

![](media/image5.wmf){width="5.391666666666667in"
height="2.704861111111111in"}

Figure A.6: Connection for Receiver tests with additional CW signal

![](media/image6.wmf){width="5.408333333333333in"
height="3.704861111111111in"}

Figure A.7: Connection for Receiver tests with both Interference and
additional CW signal

Figure A.8: Connection for tests with additional Spectrum Analyzer

![](media/image8.wmf){width="5.509722222222222in"
height="2.622916666666667in"}

Figure A.9: Connection for single cell tests with static propagation

![](media/image9.wmf){width="5.509722222222222in"
height="2.620138888888889in"}

Figure A.10: Connection for single cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation

![](media/image10.wmf){width="6.009722222222222in"
height="4.7868055555555555in"}

Figure A.11: Connection for two cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation

![](media/image11.wmf){width="6.166666666666667in"
height="2.5881944444444445in"}

Figure A.12: Connection for single cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation and transmit diversity

Figure A.12a: Connection for single cell tests with static propagation
and transmit diversity

Figure A.13: Connection for basic two cell tests

Figure A.14: Connection for multi-cell tests with static propagation

Figure A.15: Connection for multi-carrier, multi-cell tests with static
propagation

Figure A.16: Void

Figure A.17: Void

Figure A.18: Connection for basic three cell tests

Figure A.19: Void

Figure A.20: Void

Figure A.21: Connection for single cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation and UE receive diversity

Figure A.22: Connection for single cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation, transmit diversity UE receive diversity and MIMO.

Figure A.23: Connection for three cell tests with Multi-path fading
propagation

![](media/image2.png){width="6.260416666666667in"
height="6.135416666666667in"}

Figure A.24: Connection for two cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation and UE receive diversity

Figure A.25: Connection for three cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation and UE receive diversity

Figure A.26: Connection for single cell tests with static propagation
and UE receive diversity

Figure A.27: Connection for two cell tests with static propagation and
UE receive diversity

Figure A.28: Connection for 3 cell tests with static propagation and UE
receive diversity

Figure A.29: Connection for single cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation and UE receive diversity for Type 3i tests

Figure A.30: Connection for basic DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA receiver
tests

Figure A.31: Connection for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA receiver tests with
interferer

Figure A.32: Connection for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA receiver tests with
interferer or additional CW signal

Figure A.33: Connection for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA receiver tests with
additional CW signal

Figure A.34: Connection for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA receiver tests with
both interferer and additional CW signal

![](media/image8.jpeg){width="6.1in" height="4.8069444444444445in"}

Figure A.35: Connection for Dual cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA type 2 performance requirements

![](media/image9.jpeg){width="6.1in" height="4.8069444444444445in"}

Figure A.36: Connection for Dual cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA CQI reporting test cases

![](media/image10.jpeg){width="6.692361111111111in"
height="5.563888888888889in"}

Figure A.37: Connection for Dual cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA Type 3 Performance test cases

![](media/image11.jpeg){width="6.69375in" height="4.372916666666667in"}

Figure A.38: Connection for Dual cell tests with Static propagation for
DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA CQI reporting test cases

Figure A.39: Connection for DC-HSDPA, Type 3i. 6 faders. 1 delay, to
compensate for the basic delay of the faders. 2 part test illustrated by
"Freq. 12 and Freq. 21" Uplink not displayed

![](media/image13.png){width="6.506944444444445in"
height="5.409722222222222in"}

Figure A.40: Connection for Dual cell tests with Multi-path Fading
propagation for DC-HSDPA MIMO Performance test cases

Figure A.41: Connection for basic DC-HSUPA transmitter tests

Figure A.42: Connection for DC-HSUPA Transmitter intermodulation tests

Figure A.43: Connection for DC-HSUPA receiver tests with interferer or
additional CW signal

Figure A.44: Connection for DC-HSUPA receiver tests with both interferer
and additional CW signal

Figure A.45: Connection for DB-DC-HSDPA, Type 3i. 6 faders. 1 delay, to
compensate for the basic delay of the faders. 2 part test illustrated by
"Freq. 12 and Freq. 21". Uplink not displayed

Figure A.46: Connection for 4C-HSDPA tests with multi-path fading
propagation. Depending on 4C-HSDPA configuration SS\#4 may not be needed

Figure A.47: Connection for 4C-HSDPA with multi-path fading propagation
and UE receive diversity. Depending on 4C-HSDPA configuration SS\#4 may
not be needed

![](media/image2.png){width="6.502777777777778in" height="6.08125in"}

Figure A.48: Connection for basic 4C-HSDPA tests. Depending on 4C-HSDPA
configuration SS\#4 may not be needed

![](media/image3.png){width="6.497916666666667in"
height="7.444444444444445in"}

Figure A.49: Connection for 4C-HSDPA Receiver tests with Interference or
additional CW signal. Depending on 4C-HSDPA configuration SS\#4 may not
be needed

![](media/image4.png){width="6.145138888888889in"
height="7.198611111111111in"}

Figure A.50: Connection for 4C-HSDPA Receiver tests with additional CW
signal. Depending on 4C-HSDPA configuration SS\#4 may not be needed

![](media/image5.png){width="6.497916666666667in"
height="7.049305555555556in"}

Figure A.51: Connection for 4C-HSDPA Receiver tests with both
Interference and additional CW signal. Depending on 4C-HSDPA
configuration SS\#4 may not be needed

![](media/image6.png){width="5.634722222222222in"
height="1.9583333333333333in"}

Figure A.52: Connection for UL OLTD/CLTD Transmitter tests

######## Annex B (normative): Global In-Channel TX-Test

B.1 General
===========

The global in-channel Tx test enables the measurement of all relevant
parameters that describe the in-channel quality of the output signal of
the Tx under test in a single measurement process.

The parameters describing the in-channel quality of a transmitter,
however, are not necessarily independent. The algorithm chosen for
description inside this annex places particular emphasis on the
exclusion of all interdependencies among the parameters. Any other
algorithm (e.g. having better computational efficiency) may be applied,
as long as the results are the same within the acceptable uncertainty of
the test system as defined in annex F.

The global in-channel Tx test is bipartite depending whether the signal
under test contains a 16QAM modulation on any of the uplink code
channels. Further details are in Note: Residual(16 QAM).

All notes referred in the various clauses of B.2 are put together in
B.3.

B.2 Definition of the process
=============================

B.2.1 Basic principle
---------------------

The process is based on the comparison of the actual **output signal of
the TX under test**, received by an ideal receiver, with a **reference
signal**, that is generated by the measuring equipment and represents an
ideal error free received signal. The reference signal shall be composed
of the same number of codes at the correct spreading factors as
contained in the test signal. Note, for simplification, the notation
below assumes only codes of one spreading factor although the algorithm
is valid for signals containing multiple spreading factors. All signals
are represented as equivalent (generally complex) baseband signals.

B.2.2 Output signal of the TX under test
----------------------------------------

The output signal of the TX under test is acquired by the measuring
equipment, filtered by a matched filter (RRC 0.22, correct in shape and
in position on the frequency axis) and stored for further processing.

The following form represents the physical signal in the entire
measurement interval:

one vector **Z**, containing N = ns x sf complex samples;

with

ns: [n]{.underline}umber of [s]{.underline}ymbols in the measurement
interval;

sf: number of chips per symbol. (sf: [s]{.underline}preading
[f]{.underline}actor) (see Note: Symbol length)

B.2.3 Reference signal
----------------------

The reference signal is constructed by the measuring equipment according
to the relevant TX specifications.

It is filtered by the same matched filter, mentioned in clause B.2.2.,
and stored at the Inter-Symbol-Interference free instants. The following
form represents the reference signal in the entire measurement interval:

\- one vector **R**, containing N = ns x sf complex samples;

\- ns, sf: see clause B.2.2.

B.2.4 void
----------

B.2.5 Classification of measurement results
-------------------------------------------

The measurement results achieved by the global in-channel TX test can be
classified into two types:

\- Results of type \"deviation\", where the error-free parameter has a
non-zero magnitude. (These are the parameters that quantify the integral
physical characteristic of the signal).These parameters are:

RF Frequency;

Power (in case of single code);

Code Domain Power (in case of multi code);

Timing

(Additional parameters: see Note: Deviation).

\- Results of type \"residual\", where the error-free parameter has
value zero. (These are the parameters that quantify the error values of
the measured signal, whose ideal magnitude is zero). These parameters
are:

Error Vector Magnitude (EVM);

Peak Code Domain Error (PCDE).

Relative Code Domain Error (RCDE).

Origin Offset (O) See Note : Residual(16 QAM)

B.2.6 Process definition to achieve results f, t, ϕ, g~1~, g~2~, and O
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The reference signal (**R**; see clause B.2.3) and the signal under Test
(**Z**; see subclause B.2.2) are varied with respect to the parameters
RF Frequency, absolute Amplitude or Code Domain Amplitude, Phase, Timing
and Origin Offset in order to achieve best fit. Best fit is achieved
when the RMS difference value between the varied signal under test and
the varied reference signal is an absolute minimum.

Overview:

Z: Signal under test.

R: Reference signal,

with

> \- frequency f,
>
> \- the timing t,
>
> \- the phase ϕ,
>
> \- amplitude of code1 (g~1~), amplitude of code2 (g~2~) etc
>
> \- Origin Offset O See Note: Residual(16 QAM).

The parameters marked with a tilde in Z and R are varied in order to
achieve a best fit.

Detailed formula: see Note: Formula for the minimum process.

The varied reference signal, after the best fit process, will be called
**R\'.**

The varied signal under test, after the best fit process, will be called
**Z\'.**

Hence

The samples **R** are constructed, using the nominal values of the
parameters f, t, ϕ, g~1,~ g~2,...~ and O from the TX specifications

Vice versa, values for the parameters f, t, ϕ, g~1,~ g~2,...~ and O can
be assigned to the measured samples **Z**

The values in **R'**: f, t, ϕ and O are the same as in **R,** g~1~,
g~2~, ... are fit towards **Z**

The values in **Z'**: f, t, ϕ and O are fit towards **R** g~1~, g~2~,
... are same as in **Z**

The varying parameters, leading to **R\' and Z\'** represent directly
the wanted results f, t, ϕ, g~1,~ g~2,~ etc, and O. These measurement
parameters are expressed as deviation from the reference value with
units same as the reference value.

In case of multi code, the f, t, ϕ, g~1,~ g~2,~ etc, and O. parameters
(frequency, timing, origin offset and (RF-phase)) are varied commonly
for all codes such that the process returns one frequency-deviation, one
timing deviation, (one RF-phase --deviation) one origin offset.

(These parameters are [not]{.underline} varied on the individual codes
signals such that the process would return kr frequency errors. (kr:
number of codes in the reference signal)).

The only parameters varied individually are the code domain amplitudes
(g1, g2, ...) where (g~1~, g~2~, ...) comprise the active codes only. In
general the measured signal Z contains residual power on the unused
codes. The amplitudes of the unused codes in R remain 0 and are not fit
towards Z.

R' will be used for normalisation frequently in the subsequent clauses.
Hence the physical meaning of R' is explained here:

R' is the modified reference signal, modified by fitting the code
amplitudes of the active codes towards the measured signal. Hence the
power of these samples is the power of the active codes in the measured
signal. For a signal, not containing 16 QAM, this is true although f, t,
ϕ in the measured signal are different from the equivalent values in R',
however differences in these parameters do not contribute to the power
in R'. For a signal, containing 16 QAM modulation on any of the uplink
codes, the meaning is different: f, t, ϕ and O in the measured signal
are different to the equivalent values in R', but O contribute to the
power in R'. Hence the power in the samples of R' is the power of the
active codes in the measured signal excluding the power in the IQ
offset.

### B.2.6.1 Decision Point Power

The mean-square value of the signal-under-test, sampled at the best
estimate of the of Intersymbol-Interference-free points using the
process defined in subclause 2.6, is referred to the *Decision Point
Power* (DPP):

### B.2.6.2 Measured total power of all active codes

The mean-square value of the modified reference signal R' defined in
subclause 2.6, is referred to the *measured total power of all active
codes*:

measured total power of all active codes = mean(\|R'\|^2^)

### B.2.6.3 Code-Domain Power

The samples, **Z\'**, are separated into symbol intervals to create ns
time-sequential vectors **z** with sf complex samples comprising one
symbol interval. The *Code Domain Power* is calculated according to the
following steps:

1\) Take the vectors **z** defined above.

2\) To achieve meaningful results it is necessary to descramble **z,**
leading to **z\'** (see Note1: Scrambling code)

3\) Take the orthogonal vectors of the channelization code set **C**
(all codes belonging to one spreading factor) as defined in TS 25.213
and TS 25.223 (range +1, -1), and normalize by the norm of the vectors
to produce **C**norm=**C**/sqrt(sf). (see Note: Symbol length)

4\) Calculate the inner product of **z\'** with **C**norm**.**. Do this
for all symbols of the measurement interval and for all codes in the
code space.\
This gives an array of format k x ns, each value representing a specific
symbol and a specific code, which can be exploited in a variety of ways.

k: total number of codes in the code space (active and unused)

ns: number of symbols in the measurement interval

5\) Calculate k mean-square values, each mean-square value unifying ns
symbols within one code.\
(These values can be called \"*Absolute CodeDomainPower* (CDP)\".)
Unused codes may carry CDP. The sum of the k values of CDP is equal to
DPP.

6\) Normalize by the decision point power to obtain

### B.2.6.4 Code-Domain Power of the varied reference signal

1\) The samples **R'**, as defined in B.2.6, are separated into symbol
intervals to create ns time-sequential vectors **r** with sf complex
samples comprising one symbol interval. The code domain power of the
varied reference signal is calculated according to the following steps:

2\) To achieve meaningful results it is necessary to descramble **r,**
leading to **r\'** (see Note1: Scrambling code)

3\) Take the orthogonal vectors of the channelization code set **C**
(all codes belonging to one spreading factor) as defined in TS 25.213
and TS 25.223 (range +1, -1), and normalize by the norm of the vectors
to produce **C**norm=**C**/sqrt(sf).

4\) Calculate the inner product of **r\'** with **C**norm**.**. Do this
for all symbols of the measurement interval but only for used codes in
the code space. This gives an array of format uk x ns, each value
representing a specific symbol and a specific code

uk: number of codes (only active (used) codes)

ns: number of symbols in the measurement interval

5\) Calculate uk mean-square values, each mean-square value unifying ns
symbols within one code.\
These are called "Absolute *Code Domain Power of the varied reference
signal*"

6\) Normalize by measured total power of all active codes (B.2.6.2) to
obtain:

*Absolute Code Domain Power of the varied reference signal*

*Measured code domain power ratio =
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--*

*measured total power of all active codes*

B.2.7 Process definition to achieve results EVM, PCDE, RCDE
-----------------------------------------------------------

The difference between the varied reference signal (**R\'**; see clause
B.2.6.) and the varied TX signal under test (**Z\'**; see clauseB.2.6)
is the error vector **E** versus time:

\- **E** = **Z\'** -- **R\'.**

**E** gives results of type \"residual\" applying the three algorithms
defined in clauses B 2.7.1, B 2.7.2.1 and B.2.7.3.

### B.2.7.1 Error Vector Magnitude (EVM)

The Error Vector Magnitude EVM is calculated according to the following
steps:

1\) Take the error vector **E** defined in clause B.2.7 and calculate
the RMS value of **E**; the result will be called RMS(**E**).

2\) Take the varied reference vector **R\'** defined in clause B.2.6 and
calculate the RMS value of **R\'**; the result will be called
RMS(**R\'**).

3\) Calculate EVM according to:

$\text{EVM} = \frac{\text{RMS}(E)}{\text{RMS}(R')}\text{\ x\ 100\%}$
(here, EVM is relative and expressed in %)

(see Note: Formula for EVM)

### B.2.7.2 Code Domain Error Power

The Code Domain Error Power is calculated according to the following
steps:

1\) The samples **E**, as defined in B.2.7, are separated into symbol
intervals to create ns time-sequential vectors **e** with sf complex
samples comprising one symbol interval.

2\) To achieve meaningful results it is necessary to descramble **e,**
leading to **e\'** (see Note1: Scrambling code)

3\) Take the orthogonal vectors of the channelisation code set **C**
(all codes belonging to one spreading factor) as defined in TS 25.213
and TS 25.223 (range +1, -1). (see Note: Symbol length) and normalize by
the norm of the vectors to produce **C**norm= **C**/sqrt(sf). (see Note:
Symbol length)

4\) Calculate the inner product of **e\'** with **Cnorm**. Do this for
all symbols of the measurement interval and for all codes in the code
space.\
This gives an array of format k x ns, each value representing an
error-vector representing a specific symbol and a specific code, which
can be exploited in a variety of ways.

k: total number of codes in the code space

ns: number of symbols in the measurement interval

5\) Calculate k values *mean*(\|e'\|^2^) , each value unifying ns
symbols within one code.\
(These values can be called \"*Absolute Code Domain Error
Power*\"B.2.7.2.1 Peak Code Domain Error Power (PCDE)

Find the peak value among the k \"*Absolute Code Domain Error
Powers*\".\
(This value can be called \"*Absolute PeakCode Domain Error Powers*\"
This peak may hit an unused or an active code.)

Normalise by the *measured total power of all active codes* (clause
B.2.6.2) to achieve PCDE

*Absolute Peak Code Domain Error Power*

PCDE = 10\*lg
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
dB (a relative value in dB).

*measured total power of all active codes* (RMS(**R\'**))2

(see Note 2: Scrambling code)

(see Note IQ)

### B.2.7.3 Relative Code Domain Error (RCDE)

The Relative Code Domain Error is calculated according to the following
steps:

Re-use step 1 to 3 from clause B.2.7.2.

4\) Calculate the inner product of **e\'** with **Cnorm**. Do this for
all symbols of the measurement interval but only for the used codes in
the code space.\
This gives an array of format uk x ns, each value representing an
error-vector representing a specific symbol and a specific code.

uk: used (active) codes in the code space

ns: number of symbols in the measurement interval

5\) Calculate uk values *mean*(\|e'\|^2^), each value unifying ns
symbols within one code.\
(These values can be called \"*Absolute Code Domain Error Powers*\" )

6\) The uk absolute code domain error powers are normalized by the
equivalent uk code domain powers of the varied reference signal (B.2.6.4
step 5)

*Absolute CodeDomain Error Power*

RCDE
=\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

*Code domain power of the varied reference signal*

B.3 Notes
=========

**Note: Symbol length)**

A general code multiplexed signal is multicode and multirate. In order
to avoid unnecessary complexity, the measurement applications use a
unique symbol-length, corresponding to a spreading factor, regardless of
the really intended spreading factor. Nevertheless the complexity with a
multicode / multirate signal can be mastered by introducing appropriate
definitions.

**Note: Deviation)**

It is conceivable to regard more parameters as type „deviation\" e.g.
Chip frequency and RF-phase.

As chip-frequency and RF-frequency are linked together by a statement in
the core specifications \[1\] it is sufficient to process RF frequency
only.

A parameter RF-phase must be varied within the best fit process (B
2.6.). Although necessary, this parameter-variation doesn\'t describe
any error, as the modulation schemes used in the system don\'t depend on
an absolute RF-phase.

**Note: Residual (non 16 QAM))**

It is conceivable to regard more parameters as type „residual\" e.g. IQ
origin offset. As it is not the intention of the test to separate for
different error sources, but to quantify the quality of the signal, all
such parameters are not extracted by the best fit process, instead
remain part of EVM and PCDE.

**Note: Residual(16 QAM)**

When a UE uses 16QAM modulation on any of the uplink code channels, the
best fit process, described in B.2.6, includes the Origin Offset as an
additional parameter for minimisation. Otherwise Origin Offset is not
part of the best fit process and remains part of EVM, PCDE and RCDE,
This bipartite handling of the minimisation process will influence the
results for EVM, PCDE and RCDE by definition. It will influence the
results for amplitude and the code amplitudes and it may influence, as
an effect of higher order, the results for RF frequency, absolute phase
and phase discontinuity.

**Note 1: Scrambling Code)**

In general a TX signal under test can use more than one scrambling code.
Note that PCDE is processed regarding the unused channelisation - codes
as well. In order to know which scrambling code shall be applied on
unused channelisation -codes, it is necessary to restrict the test
conditions: TX signal under test shall use exactly one scrambling code.

**Note 2: Scrambling Code)**

To interpret the measurement results in practice it should be kept in
mind that erroneous code power on unused codes is generally de-scrambled
differently under test conditions and under real life conditions,
whereas erroneous code power on used codes is generally de-scrambled
equally under test conditions and under real life conditions. It might
be indicated if a used or unused code hits PCDE.

**Note IQ)**

As in FDD/uplink each code can be used twice, on the I and on the Q
channel, the measurement result may indicate separate values of CDP or
PCDE for I and Q on which channel (I or Q) they occur.

NOTE: Formula for the minimum process

Legend:

L : the function to be minimised.

The parameters to be varied in order to minimize are:

> $\Delta\overset{\sim}{f}$: the RF frequency offset
>
> $\Delta\overset{\sim}{t}$: the timing offset
>
> $\Delta\overset{\sim}{\phi}$: the phase offset
>
> $\Delta{\overset{\sim}{g}}_{c}\text{.}\text{.}\text{.}$code amplitude
> offsets (one offset for each code)

$\overset{\sim}{O}$: Origin Offset

Z(ν): Samples of the signal under Test

R(ν): Samples of the reference signal

$\sum_{\nu = 0}^{N - 1}{}$: counting index $\nu$starting at the
beginning of the measurement interval and ending at its end.

N = No of chips during the measurement interval.

Z(ν): Samples of the signal under Test. It is modelled as a sequence of
complex baseband samples Z(ν) with a n Origin offset, time-shift ∆t, a
frequency offset ∆f, a phase offset ∆ϕ, the latter three with respect to
the reference signal.

$Z(\nu) = Z(\nu - \Delta\overset{\sim}{t}) \ast e^{- j2\text{πΔ}\overset{\sim}{f}\nu} \ast e^{- \text{jΔ}\overset{\sim}{\phi}}$

$Z(\nu) = Z(\nu - \Delta\overset{\sim}{t}) \ast e^{- j2\text{πΔ}\overset{\sim}{f}\nu} \ast e^{- \text{jΔ}\overset{\sim}{\phi}}$R(ν):
Samples of the reference signal:

> g: nominal amplitude of the code channel
>
> $\Delta\overset{\sim}{g}$: The offset to be varied in the minimum
> process
>
> Chip(ν) is the chipsequence of the code channel
>
> Indices at g, Δg and Chip:
>
> The index indicates the code channel: c = 1,2,\... No of code channels
>
> Range for Chip~c~ : +1,-1

NOTE: Formula for EVM

Z\'(ν), R\'(ν) are the varied measured and reference signals.

######## Annex C (normative): Measurement channels

C.1 General
===========

The measurement channels in this annex are defined to derive the
requirements in clauses 5, 6 and 7. The measurement channels represent
example configuration of radio access bearers for different data rates.

The measurement channel for 12,2 kbps shall be supported by any UE both
in up- and downlink. Support for other measurement channels is depending
on the UE Radio Access capabilities.

C.2 UL reference measurement channel
====================================

C.2.1 UL reference measurement channel (12,2 kbps)
--------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the 12,2 kbps UL reference measurement channel are
specified in table C.2.1.1, table C 2.1.2, table C 2.1.3 and table
C.2.1.4. The channel coding for information is shown in figure C.2.1.

Table C.2.1.1: UL reference measurement channel physical parameters
(12,2 kbps)

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                   Level   Unit
  Information bit rate                                                                                                                                                        12,2    kbps
  DPDCH                                                                                                                                                                       60      kbps
  DPCCH                                                                                                                                                                       15      kbps
  DPCCH Slot Format \#i                                                                                                                                                       0       \-
  DPCCH/DPDCH power ratio                                                                                                                                                     −5,46   dB
  TFCI                                                                                                                                                                        On      \-
  Repetition                                                                                                                                                                  23      \%
  NOTE: Slot Format \#2 is used for closed loop tests in clause 7.6.2. Slot Format \#2 and \#5 are used for site selection diversity transmission tests in subclause 7.6.3.           
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------

Table C.2.1.2: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (12.2 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 244          | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 12200        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 244          | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*244       | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*244       | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Convolution  | Convolution  |        |
|              |              | Coding       | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | 1/3          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 804          | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 402          | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.2.1.3: UL reference measurement channel, TFCS (12.2 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

NOTE: The TFCs except for (TF1, TF1) are belonging to minimum set of
TFCs.

![](media/image9.wmf){width="6.942361111111111in"
height="4.122222222222222in"}

Figure C.2.1 (Informative): Channel coding of UL reference measurement
channel (12,2 kbps)

C.2.2 UL reference measurement channel (64 kbps)
------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the 64 kbps UL reference measurement channel are
specified in table C.2.2.1, table C.2.2.2, table C.2.2.3 and table
C.2.2.4. The channel coding for information is shown in figure C.2.2.

Table C.2.2.1: UL reference measurement channel (64 kbps)

  ----------------------- ------- ------
  Parameter               Level   Unit
  Information bit rate    64      kbps
  DPDCH                   240     kbps
  DPCCH                   15      kbps
  DPCCH Slot Format \#i   0       \-
  DPCCH/DPDCH             −9,54   dB
  TFCI                    On      \-
  Repetition              18      \%
  ----------------------- ------- ------

Table C.2.2.2: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (64 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 1280         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 64000        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 1280         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*1280      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*1280      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 3900         | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 1950         | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.2.2.3: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-AM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (64 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | AM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 1264         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 63200        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | 16           | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | N/A          | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 1280         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*1280      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*1280      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 3900         | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 1950         | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.2.2.4: UL reference measurement channel, TFCS (64 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

NOTE: The TFCs except for (TF1, TF1) are belonging to minimum set of
TFCs.

![](media/image10.wmf){width="6.942361111111111in"
height="4.113888888888889in"}

Figure C.2.2 (Informative): Channel coding of UL reference measurement
channel (64 kbps)

C.2.3 UL reference measurement channel (144 kbps)
-------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the 144 kbps UL reference measurement channel are
specified in table C.2.3.1, table C.2.3.2, table C.2.3.3 and table
C.2.3.4. The channel coding for information is shown in figure C.2.3.

Table C.2.3.1: UL reference measurement channel (144 kbps)

  ------------------------- -------- ------
  Parameter                 Level    Unit
  Information bit rate      144      kbps
  DPDCH                     480      kbps
  DPCCH                     15       kbps
  DPCCH Slot Format \#i     0        \-
  DPCCH/DPDCH power ratio   −11,48   dB
  TFCI                      On       \-
  Repetition                8        \%
  ------------------------- -------- ------

Table C.2.3.2: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (144 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 2880         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 144000       | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 2880         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*2880      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*2880      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 8700         | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 4350         | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.2.3.3: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-AM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (144 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | AM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 2864         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 143200       | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | 16           | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | N/A          | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 2880         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*2880      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*2880      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 8700         | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 4350         | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.2.3.4: UL reference measurement channel, TFCS (144 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

NOTE: The TFCs except for (TF1, TF1) are belonging to minimum set of
TFCs.

![](media/image11.wmf){width="6.942361111111111in"
height="4.138888888888889in"}

Figure C.2.3 (Informative): Channel coding of UL reference measurement
channel (144 kbps)

C.2.4 UL reference measurement channel (384 kbps)
-------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the 384 kbps UL reference measurement channel are
specified in table C.2.4.1, table C.2.4.2, table C.2.4.3 and table
C.2.4.4. The channel coding for information is shown in figure C.2.4.

Table C.2.4.1: UL reference measurement channel (384 kbps)

  ------------------------- -------- ------
  Parameter                 Level    Unit
  Information bit rate      384      kbps
  DPDCH                     960      kbps
  DPCCH                     15       kbps
  DPCCH Slot Format \#i     0        \-
  DPCCH/DPDCH power ratio   -11,48   dB
  TFCI                      On       \-
  Puncturing                18       \%
  ------------------------- -------- ------

Table C.2.4.2: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (384 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 3840         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 384000       | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 3840         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*3840      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*3840      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 10           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 11580        | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 11580        | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.2.4.3: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-AM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (384 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | AM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 3824         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 382400       | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | 16           | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | N/A          | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 3840         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*3840      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*3840      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 10           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 11580        | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 11580        | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.2.4.4: UL reference measurement channel, TFCS (384 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

NOTE: The TFCs except for (TF1, TF1) are belonging to minimum set of
TFCs.

![](media/image12.wmf){width="6.561805555555556in"
height="3.910416666666667in"}

Figure C.2.4 (informative): Channel coding of UL reference measurement
channel (384 kbps)

C.2.5 UL reference measurement channel (768 kbps) 
-------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the UL measurement channel for 768 kbps are specified
in table C.2.5.1, table C.2.5.2, table C.2.5.3 and table C.2.5.4.

Table C.2.5.1: UL reference measurement channel, physical parameters
(768 kbps)

  ------------------------- -------- ------
  Parameter                 Level    Unit
  Information bit rate      2\*384   kbps
  DPDCH1                    960      kbps
  DPDCH2                    960      kbps
  DPCCH                     15       kbps
  DPCCH Slot Format \#i     0        \-
  DPCCH/DPDCH power ratio   -11.48   dB
  TFCI                      On       \-
  Puncturing                18       \%
  ------------------------- -------- ------

Table C.2.5.2: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (768 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 7680         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 768000       | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 3840         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*3840      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 2\*3840      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 10           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 23160        | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 23160        | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.2.5.3: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-AM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (768 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 7664         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 766400       | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | 16           | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | N/A          | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 3840         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*3840      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 2\*3840      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 10           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 23160        | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 23160        | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.2.5.4: UL reference measurement channel, TFCS (768 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

NOTE: The TFCs except for (TF1, TF1) are belonging to minimum set of
TFCs.

C.2.6 UL E-DCH reference measurement channel for DC-HSUPA using BPSK modulation
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the UL measurement channel for UE transmitter
characteristics for DC-HSUPA are specified in Table C.2.6.1 and Figure
C.2.6. The power imbalance in Table C.2.6.1 refers to the ratio of the
DPCCH power of the primary uplink frequency to the DPCCH power of the
secondary uplink frequency, expressed in dB.

Table C.2.6.1: Settings for DC-HSUPA reference measurement channel using
BPSK modulation

+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Parameter                   | Unit                        | Value |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Modulation                  |                             | BPSK  |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Maximum. Inf. Bit Rate      | kbps                        | 60    |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| TTI                         | ms                          | 2     |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Number of HARQ Processes    | Processes                   | 8     |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Information Bit Payload     | Bits                        | 120   |
| (N~INF~)                    |                             |       |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Binary Channel Bits per TTI | Bits                        | 480   |
| (N~BIN~)                    |                             |       |
|                             |                             |       |
| (3840 / SF x TTI sum for    |                             |       |
| all channels)               |                             |       |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Coding Rate (N~INF~/        |                             | 0.25  |
| N~BIN~)                     |                             |       |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Physical Channel Codes      | SF for each physical        | {16}  |
|                             | channel                     |       |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| E-DPDCH/DPCCH power ratio   | dB                          | 4.08  |
|                             |                             |       |
| E-DPCCH/DPCCH power ratio   | dB                          | -9.54 |
|                             |                             |       |
| HS-PDCCH/DPCCH power ratio  | dB                          | -9.54 |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Power imbalance             | dB                          | 0     |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Note: HS-DPCCH is           |                             |       |
| applicable only for the     |                             |       |
| primary uplink frequency.   |                             |       |
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+

Figure C.2.6: Coding rate for DC-HSUPA reference measurement channel
using BPSK modulation

C.2.7 UL E-DCH reference measurement channel for DC-HSUPA using 16QAM modulation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the UL measurement channel for UE transmitter
characteristics for DC-HSUPA using 16QAM modulation are specified in
Table C.2.7.1 and Figure C.2.7. The power imbalance in Table C.2.7.1
refers to the ratio of the DPCCH power of the primary uplink frequency
to the DPCCH power of the secondary uplink frequency, expressed in dB.

Table C.2.7.1: Settings for DC-HSUPA reference measurement channel using
16QAM modulation

+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| Parameter                 | Unit                      | Value     |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| Modulation                |                           | 16QAM     |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| Maximum. Inf. Bit Rate    | kbps                      | 4227      |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| TTI                       | ms                        | 2         |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| Number of HARQ Processes  | Processes                 | 8         |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| Information Bit Payload   | Bits                      | 8454      |
| (NINF)                    |                           |           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| Binary Channel Bits per   | Bits                      | 23040     |
| TTI (NBIN)                |                           |           |
|                           |                           |           |
| (3840 / SF x TTI sum for  |                           |           |
| all channels)             |                           |           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| Coding Rate (NINF/ NBIN)  |                           | 0.367     |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| Physical Channel Codes    | SF for each physical      | {2,2,4,4} |
|                           | channel                   |           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| E-DPDCH/DPCCH power ratio | dB                        | 16.03     |
| SF4 codes                 |                           |           |
|                           | dB                        | 19.02     |
| E-DPCCH/DPCCH power ratio |                           |           |
| SF2 codes                 | dB                        | 8.07      |
|                           |                           |           |
| E-DPCCH/DPCCH power ratio | dB                        | 2.05      |
|                           |                           |           |
| HS-PDCCH/DPCCH power      |                           |           |
| ratio                     |                           |           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| Power imbalance           | dB                        | 0         |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
| Note: HS-DPCCH is         |                           |           |
| applicable only for the   |                           |           |
| primary uplink frequency. |                           |           |
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+

Figure C.2.7: Coding rate for DC-HSUPA reference measurement channel
using 16QAM modulation

C.2.8 Combinations of UL E-DCH reference measurement channel for DC-HSUPA tests
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The combinations of BPSK and 16QAM reference measurement channels in
Table C.2.8.1 shall be used for verifying the UE maximum output power
for DC-HSUPA, additional Spectrum emission mask for DC-HSUPA, and
additional ACLR requirement for DC-HSUPA. The entry BPSK in Table
C.2.8.1 refers to the UL E-DCH reference measurement channel for
DC-HSUPA using BPSK modulation, specified in subclause C.2.6, and the
entry 16QAM refers to the UL E-DCH reference measurement channel for
DC-HSUPA using 16QAM modulation, specified in subclause C.2.7. The power
imbalance in subclause C.2.6 and C.2.7 have been adjusted as shown in
Table C.2.8.1.

Table C.2.8.1: E-DPDCH settings for DC-HSUPA reference measurement
channel

  ----------- ----------------- ------------------- ------------------------ --------------------
  Config \#   Primary carrier   Secondary carrier   Power imbalance \[dB\]   Allowed MPR \[dB\]
  1           BPSK              BPSK                -10                      \[0.5\]
  2           BPSK              BPSK                8                        \[1.0\]
  3           BPSK              BPSK                0                        \[1.5\]
  4           16QAM             16QAM               0                        \[TBD\]
  ----------- ----------------- ------------------- ------------------------ --------------------

C.3 DL reference measurement channel
====================================

C.3.1 DL reference measurement channel (12.2 kbps)
--------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the 12,2 kbps DL reference measurement channel are
specified in table C.3.1.1, table C.3.1.2 and table C.3.1.3. The channel
coding is detailed in figure C.3.1. For the RLC configuration of AM
DCCHs Timer\_STATUS\_Periodic shall not be set in RRC CONNECTION SETUP
message used in test procedure for RF test as defined in TS 34.108 \[3\]
clause 7.3. This is to prevent unexpected DCHs from being transmitted
through such RLC entities when the timer has expired in order to sure
that the required TFC from the minimum set of TFCs can continuously
convey a DCH for DTCH during the test.

Table C.3.1.1: DL reference measurement channel (12.2 kbps)

  -------------------------------- ------- ------
  Parameter                        Level   Unit
  Information bit rate             12.2    kbps
  DPCH                             30      ksps
  Slot Format \#I                  11      \-
  TFCI                             On      
  Power offsets PO1, PO2 and PO3   0       dB
  DTX position                     Fixed   \-
  -------------------------------- ------- ------

Table C.3.1.2: DL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (12.2 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 244          | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 12200        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 6            | 10           |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 244          | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*244       | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*244       | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Convolution  | Convolution  |        |
|              |              | Coding       | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | 1/3          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 804          | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.3.1.3: DL reference measurement channel, TFCS (12.2 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

![](media/image15.wmf){width="6.667361111111111in"
height="3.967361111111111in"}

Figure C.3.1 (informative): Channel coding of DL reference measurement
channel (12.2 kbps)

C.3.1A DL reference measurement channel (0 kbps and 12.2 kbps)
--------------------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the 0 kbps and 12.2 kbps DL reference measurement
channel are specified in table C.3.1A.1, table C.3.1A.2 and table
C.3.1A.3. The channel coding is detailed in figures C.3.1A and C.3.1B.
For the RLC configuration of AM DCCHs Timer\_STATUS\_Periodic shall not
be set in RRC CONNECTION SETUP message used in the test procedure for RF
testing as defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3. This is to prevent
unexpected DCHs from being transmitted through such RLC entities when
the timer has expired in order to make sure that the required TFC from
the minimum set of TFCs can continuously convey a DCH for DTCH during
the test.

Table C.3.1A.1: DL reference measurement channel (0 kbps and 12.2 kbps)

  -------------------------------- ------- ------
  Parameter                        Level   Unit
  Information bit rate             12.2    kbps
  DPCH                             30      ksps
  Slot Format \#I                  11      \-
  TFCI                             On      \-
  Power offsets PO1, PO2 and PO3   0       dB
  DTX position                     Fixed   \-
  -------------------------------- ------- ------

Table C.3.1A.2: DL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (0 kbps and 12.2 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 244          | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 12200        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 6            | 10           |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 244          | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 1\*0         | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*244       | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Convolution  | Convolution  |        |
|              |              | Coding       | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | 1/3          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 804          | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.3.1A.3: DL reference measurement channel, TFCS (0 kbps and 12.2
kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

Figure C.3.1A (Informative): Channel coding of DL reference measurement
channel (0 kbps)

![](media/image15.wmf){width="6.667361111111111in"
height="3.967361111111111in"}

Figure C.3.1B (informative): Channel coding of DL reference measurement
channel (12.2 kbps)

C.3.2 DL reference measurement channel (64 kbps)
------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the DL reference measurement channel for 64 kbps are
specified in table C.3.2.1, table C.3.2.2, table C.3.2.3 and table
C.3.2.4. The channel coding is detailed in figure C.3.2. For the RLC
configuration of AM DCCHs Timer\_STATUS\_Periodic shall not be set in
RRC CONNECTION SETUP message used in test procedure for RF test as
defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3. This is to prevent unexpected
DCHs from being transmitted through such RLC entities when the timer has
expired in order to sure that the required TFC from the minimum set of
TFCs can continuously convey a DCH for DTCH during the test.

Table C.3.2.1: DL reference measurement channel (64 kbps)

  -------------------------------- ------- ------
  Parameter                        Level   Unit
  Information bit rate             64      kbps
  DPCH                             120     ksps
  Slot Format \#i                  13      \-
  TFCI                             On      \-
  Power offsets PO1, PO2 and PO3   0       dB
  DTX position                     Fixed   \-
  -------------------------------- ------- ------

Table C.3.2.2: DL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (64 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 1280         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 64000        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 6            | 10           |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 1280         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*1280      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*1280      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 3900         | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.3.2.3: DL reference measurement channel using RLC-AM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (64 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | AM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 1264         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 63200        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | 16           | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | N/A          | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 6            | 10           |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 1280         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*1280      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*1280      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 3900         | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.3.2.4: DL reference measurement channel, TFCS (64 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

![](media/image17.wmf){width="6.667361111111111in"
height="3.967361111111111in"}

Figure C.3.2 (informative): Channel coding of DL reference measurement
channel (64 kbps)

C.3.3 DL reference measurement channel (144 kbps)
-------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the DL reference measurement channel for 144 kbps are
specified in table C.3.3.1, table C.3.3.2, table C.3.3.3 and table
C.3.3.4. The channel coding is detailed in figure C.3.3. For the RLC
configuration of AM DCCHs Timer\_STATUS\_Periodic shall not be set in
RRC CONNECTION SETUP message used in test procedure for RF test as
defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3. This is to prevent unexpected
DCHs from being transmitted through such RLC entities when the timer has
expired in order to sure that the required TFC from the minimum set of
TFCs can continuously convey a DCH for DTCH during the test.

Table C.3.3.1: DL reference measurement channel (144kbps)

  -------------------------------- ------- ------
  Parameter                        Level   Unit
  Information bit rate             144     kbps
  DPCH                             240     ksps
  Slot Format \#i                  14      \-
  TFCI                             On      
  Power offsets PO1, PO2 and PO3   0       dB
  DTX position                     Fixed   \-
  -------------------------------- ------- ------

Table C.3.3.2: DL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (144 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 2880         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 144000       | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 6            | 10           |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 2880         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*2880      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*2880      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 8700         | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.3.3.3: DL reference measurement channel using RLC-AM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (144 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | AM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 2864         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 143200       | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | 16           | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | N/A          | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 6            | 10           |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 2880         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*2880      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*2880      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 8700         | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.3.3.4: DL reference measurement channel, TFCS (144 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

![](media/image18.wmf){width="6.667361111111111in"
height="3.967361111111111in"}

Figure C.3.3 (informative): Channel coding of DL reference measurement
channel (144 kbps)

C.3.4 DL reference measurement channel (384 kbps)
-------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the DL reference measurement channel for 384 kbps are
specified in table C.3.4.1, table C.3.4.2, table C.3.4.3 and table
C.3.4.4. The channel coding is shown for information in figure C3.4. For
the RLC configuration of AM DCCHs Timer\_STATUS\_Periodic shall not be
set in RRC CONNECTION SETUP message used in test procedure for RF test
as defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause 7.3. This is to prevent unexpected
DCHs from being transmitted through such RLC entities when the timer has
expired in order to sure that the required TFC from the minimum set of
TFCs can continuously convey a DCH for DTCH during the test.

Table C.3.4.1: DL reference measurement channel, physical parameters
(384 kbps)

  -------------------------------- ------- ------
  Parameter                        Level   Unit
  Information bit rate             384     kbps
  DPCH                             480     ksps
  Slot Format \#i                  15      \-
  TFCI                             On      \-
  Power offsets PO1, PO2 and PO3   0       dB
  DTX position                     Fixed   \-
  -------------------------------- ------- ------

Table C.3.4.2: DL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (384 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 3840         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 384000       | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 6            | 10           |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 3840         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*3840      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*3840      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 10           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 11580        | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.3.4.3: DL reference measurement channel using RLC-AM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (384 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | AM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 3824         | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 382400       | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | 16           | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | N/A          | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 6            | 10           |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 3840         | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*3840      | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*3840      | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 10           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | N/A          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 11580        | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.3.4.4: DL reference measurement channel, TFCS (384 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

![](media/image19.wmf){width="6.667361111111111in"
height="3.967361111111111in"}

Figure C.3.4 (informative): Channel coding of DL reference measurement
channel (384 kbps)

C.3.5 DL reference measurement channel 2 (64 kbps)
--------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the DL reference measurement channel 2 for 64 kbps
are specified in table C.3.5.1, table C.3.5.2 and table C.3.5.3. The
channel coding is detailed in figure C.3.5. For the RLC configuration of
AM DCCHs Timer\_STATUS\_Periodic shall not be set in RRC CONNECTION
SETUP message used in test procedure for RF test as defined in TS 34.108
\[3\] clause 7.3. This is to prevent unexpected DCHs from being
transmitted through such RLC entities when the timer has expired in
order to sure that the required TFC from the minimum set of TFCs can
continuously convey a DCH for DTCH during the test.

Table C.3.5.1: DL reference measurement channel physical parameters (64
kbps)

  ----------------------------- ------ -------
  Parameter                     Unit   Level
  Information bit rate (DTCH)   kbps   64
  Information bit rate (DCCH)   kbps   3.4
  DPCH                          ksps   120
  Slot Format \#i               \-     13
  TFCI                          \-     On
  Puncturing (DTCH)             \%     8.6
  Repetition (DCCH)             \%     27.9
  ----------------------------- ------ -------

Table C.3.5.2: DL reference measurement channel 2 using RLC-AM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (64 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | AM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 320          | 136/128      |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 64000        | 3400/3200    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | 16           | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | N/A          | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 6            | 10           |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 336          | 148          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB set size, | 1344         | 148          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB per TTI   | 4            | 1            |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*336       | 0\*148 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*336       | 1\*148 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF2, bits    | 4\*336       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Turbo Coding | Convolution  |        |
|              |              |              | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | 1/3          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 16           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 1068\*4      | 516          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 143          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.3.5.3: DL reference measurement channel 2, TFCS (64 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 6                                                          |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                              |
|           |                                                            |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF2, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure C.3.5 (informative): Channel coding of DL reference measurement
channel 2 (64 kbps)

C.4 Reference measurement channel for BTFD performance requirements
===================================================================

C.4.1 UL reference measurement channel for BTFD performance requirements
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The parameters for UL reference measurement channel for BTFD are
specified in table C.4.1.1, table C.4.1.2, table C.4.1.3 and
table C.4.1.4.

Table C.4.1.1: UL reference measurement channel physical parameters for
BTFD

  ------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------ ------
  Parameter                 Level                                                        Unit
  Information bit rate      12.8k, 10.8k, 8.55k, 8.0k, 7.3k, 6.5k, 5.75k, 5.35k, 2.55k   kbps
  DPCCH                     15                                                           kbps
  DPCCH Slot Format \#i     0                                                            \-
  DPCCH/DPDCH power ratio   -5.46 (12.8k - 7.3k)                                         dB
                            -2.69 (6.5k -- 2.55k)                                        
  TFCI                      On                                                           \-
  Puncturing Limit          100                                                          \%
  ------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------ ------

Table C.4.1.2: UL reference measurement channel, transport channel
parameters for SRB

+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| Higher         | RAB/Signalling   | SRB              |        |
|                | RB               |                  |        |
| Layer          |                  |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| RLC            | Logical channel  | DCCH             |        |
|                | type             |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | RLC mode         | UM/AM            |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Payload sizes,   | 88/80            |        |
|                | bit              |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Max data rate,   | 2200/2000        |        |
|                | bps              |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | PDU header, bit  | 8/16             |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | TrD PDU header,  | N/A              |        |
|                | bit              |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| MAC            | MAC header, bit  | 4                |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | MAC multiplexing | Yes              |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| Layer 1        | TrCH type        | DCH              |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Transport        | 10               |        |
|                | Channel Identity |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | TB sizes, bit    | 100              |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | TFS              | TF0, bits        | 0\*100 |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                |                  | TF1, bits        | 1\*100 |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | TTI, ms          | 40               |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Coding type      | Convolution      |        |
|                |                  | Coding           |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Coding Rate      | 1/3              |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | CRC, bit         | 12               |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Max number of    | 360              |        |
|                | bits/TTI after   |                  |        |
|                | channel coding   |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| []{.underline} | Uplink: Max      | 90               |        |
|                | number of        |                  |        |
|                | bits/radio frame |                  |        |
|                | before rate      |                  |        |
|                | matching         |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| []{.underline} | RM attribute     | 256              |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+

Table C.4.1.3: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters

+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Higher         | RAB/Signalling RB | 12.8k             |       |
|                |                   | /10.8k/8.55       |       |
| Layer          |                   | k/8.0k/7.3k/6.5k/ |       |
|                |                   | 5.75k/5.35k/2.55k |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| RLC            | Logical channel   | DTCH              |       |
|                | type              |                   |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | RLC mode          | TM                |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | Payload sizes,    | 256, 216, 171,    |       |
|                | bit               | 160, 146, 130,    |       |
|                |                   | 115, 107, 51, 12  |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | Max data rate,    | 12200             |       |
|                | bps               |                   |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | PDU header, bit   | N/A               |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | TrD PDU header,   | 0                 |       |
|                | bit               |                   |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| MAC            | MAC header, bit   | 0                 |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | MAC multiplexing  | N/A               |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Layer 1        | TrCH type         | DCH               |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | Transport Channel | 1                 |       |
|                | Identity          |                   |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | TB sizes, bit     | 256, 216, 171,    |       |
|                |                   | 160, 146, 130,    |       |
|                |                   | 115, 107, 51,12   |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | TFS               | TF0 bit           | 0x256 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF1 bit           | 1x256 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF2 bit           | 1x216 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF3 bit           | 1x171 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF4 bit           | 1x160 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF5 bit           | 1x146 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF6 bit           | 1x130 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF7 bit           | 1x115 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF8 bit           | 1x107 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF9 bit           | 1x51  |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF10 bit          | 1x12  |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | TTI, ms           | 20                |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | Coding type       | CC                |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | Coding Rate       | 1/3               |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | CRC, bit          | 0                 |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| []{.underline} | RM attribute      | 256               |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+

Table C.4.1.4: UL reference measurement channel, TFCS

+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 22                                                      |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                           |
|           |                                                         |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF2, TF0), (TF3, TF0), (TF4,   |
|           | TF0), (TF5, TF0), (TF6, TF0), (TF7, TF0), (TF8, TF0),   |
|           | (TF9, TF0), (TF10, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1), (TF2,  |
|           | TF1), (TF3, TF1), (TF4, TF1), (TF5, TF1), (TF6, TF1),   |
|           | (TF7, TF1), (TF8, TF1), (TF9, TF1), (TF10, TF1)         |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+

NOTE: The TFCs (TF0, TF0), (TF10, TF0) and (TF0, TF1)are belonging to
minimum set of TFCs.

C.4.2 DL reference measurement channel for BTFD performance requirements
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The parameters for DL reference measurement channel for BTFD are
specified in table C.4.2.1, table C.4.2.2, table C.4.2.3 and table
C.4.2.4. The channel coding for information is shown in figures C.4.1,
C.4.2, and C.4.3. For the RLC configuration of AM DCCHs
Timer\_STATUS\_Periodic shall not be set in RRC CONNECTION SETUP message
used in test procedure for RF test as defined in TS 34.108 \[3\] clause
7.3. This is to prevent unexpected DCHs from being transmitted through
such RLC entities when the timer has expired in order to ensure that the
required TFC from the minimum set of TFCs can continuously convey a DCH
for DTCH during the test.

Table C.4.2.1: DL reference measurement channel physical parameters for
BTFD

  -------------------------------- -------- -------- -------- ------
  Parameter                        Rate 1   Rate 2   Rate 3   Unit
  Information bit rate             12,2     7,95     1,95     kbps
  DPCH                             30       ksps              
  Slot Format \#I                  8        \-                
  TFCI                             Off      \-                
  Power offsets PO1, PO2 and PO3   0        dB                
  DTX position                     Fixed    \-                
  -------------------------------- -------- -------- -------- ------

Table C.4.2.2: DL reference measurement channel, transport channel
parameters for SRB

+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| Higher         | RAB/Signalling   | SRB              |        |
|                | RB               |                  |        |
| Layer          |                  |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| RLC            | Logical channel  | DCCH             |        |
|                | type             |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | RLC mode         | UM/AM            |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Payload sizes,   | 88/80            |        |
|                | bit              |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Max data rate,   | 2200/2000        |        |
|                | bps              |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | PDU header, bit  | 8/16             |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | TrD PDU header,  | N/A              |        |
|                | bit              |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| MAC            | MAC header, bit  | 4                |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | MAC multiplexing | Yes              |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| Layer 1        | TrCH type        | DCH              |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Transport        | 20               |        |
|                | Channel Identity |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | TB sizes, bit    | 100              |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | TFS              | TF0, bits        | 0\*100 |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                |                  | TF1, bits        | 1\*100 |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | TTI, ms          | 40               |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Coding type      | Convolution      |        |
|                |                  | Coding           |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Coding Rate      | 1/3              |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | CRC, bit         | 12               |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
|                | Max number of    | 360              |        |
|                | bits/TTI after   |                  |        |
|                | channel coding   |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| []{.underline} | Uplink: Max      | 90               |        |
|                | number of        |                  |        |
|                | bits/radio frame |                  |        |
|                | before rate      |                  |        |
|                | matching         |                  |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
| []{.underline} | RM attribute     | 256              |        |
+----------------+------------------+------------------+--------+

Table C.4.2.3: DL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters

+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Higher         | RAB/Signalling RB | 12.2k/10.2k/7.95  |       |
|                |                   | k/7.4k/6.7k/5.9k/ |       |
| Layer          |                   | 5.15k/4.75k/1.95k |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| RLC            | Logical channel   | DTCH              |       |
|                | type              |                   |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | RLC mode          | TM                |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | Payload sizes,    | 244, 204, 159,    |       |
|                | bit               | 148, 134, 118,    |       |
|                |                   | 103, 95, 39       |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | Max data rate,    | 12200             |       |
|                | bps               |                   |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | PDU header, bit   | N/A               |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | TrD PDU header,   | 0                 |       |
|                | bit               |                   |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| MAC            | MAC header, bit   | 0                 |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | MAC multiplexing  | N/A               |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Layer 1        | TrCH type         | DCH               |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | Transport Channel | 1                 |       |
|                | Identity          |                   |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | TB sizes, bit     | 244, 204, 159,    |       |
|                |                   | 148, 134, 118,    |       |
|                |                   | 103, 95, 39       |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | TFS               |                   |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF0 bit           | 1x244 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF1 bit           | 1x204 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF2 bit           | 1x159 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF3 bit           | 1x148 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF4 bit           | 1x134 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF5 bit           | 1x118 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF6 bit           | 1x103 |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF7 bit           | 1x95  |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                |                   | TF8 bit           | 1x39  |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | TTI, ms           | 20                |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | Coding type       | CC                |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | Coding Rate       | 1/3               |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
|                | CRC, bit          | 12                |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
| []{.underline} | RM attribute      | 256               |       |
+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+

Table C.4.2.4: DL reference measurement channel, TFCS

+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 18                                                      |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                           |
|           |                                                         |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF2, TF0), (TF3, TF0), (TF4,   |
|           | TF0), (TF5, TF0), (TF6, TF0), (TF7, TF0), (TF8, TF0),   |
|           | (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1), (TF2, TF1), (TF3, TF1), (TF4,   |
|           | TF1), (TF5, TF1), (TF6, TF1), (TF7, TF1), (TF8, TF1)    |
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+

![](media/image21.wmf){width="6.636111111111111in"
height="3.8645833333333335in"}

FigureC.4.1 (informative): Channel coding of DL reference measurement
channel for BTFD (Rate 1)

![](media/image22.wmf){width="6.677083333333333in"
height="3.904166666666667in"}

Figure C.4.2 (informative): Channel coding of DL reference measurement
channel for BTFD (Rate 2)

![](media/image23.wmf){width="6.5881944444444445in"
height="3.8520833333333333in"}

Figure C.4.3 (informative): Channel coding of DL reference measurement
channel for BTFD (Rate 3)

C.4.3 Reference parameters for discontinuous UL DPCCH transmission
------------------------------------------------------------------

The parameters for the UE UL power control operation with discontinuous
UL DPCCH transmission test is specified in Table C.4.3.1. Same parameter
values are used for 2ms and 10ms E-DCH TTI.

Table C.4.3.1: Parameters for the discontinuous UL DPCCH transmission

C.5 DL reference compressed mode parameters
===========================================

Parameters described in table C.5.1 are used in some test specified in
TS 25.101 while parameters described in table C.5.2 are used in some
tests specified in TS 25.133 \[2\].

Set 1 parameters in table C.5.1 are applicable when compressed mode by
spreading factor reduction is used in downlink. Set 2 parameters in
table C.5.1 are applicable when compressed mode by puncturing is used in
downlink. Set 2 is applicable for Release 99 and Release 4 only.

Table C.5.1: Compressed mode reference pattern 1 parameters

+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| Parameter       | Set 1   | Set 2      | Set 2A  | Note            |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| TGSN            | 11      | 11         | 4       |                 |
| (Transmission   |         |            |         |                 |
| Gap Starting    |         |            |         |                 |
| Slot Number)    |         |            |         |                 |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| TGL1            | 7       | 7          | 7       |                 |
| (Transmission   |         |            |         |                 |
| Gap Length 1)   |         |            |         |                 |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| TGL2            | \-      | \-         | 7       | For Set 1 and   |
| (Transmission   |         |            |         | Set 2 only one  |
| Gap Length 2)   |         |            |         | gap in use.     |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| TGD             | 0       | 0          | 15      | Only one gap in |
| (Transmission   |         |            |         | use.            |
| Gap Distance)   |         |            |         |                 |
|                 |         |            |         | For Set 1 and   |
|                 |         |            |         | Set 2 UNDEFINED |
|                 |         |            |         | is used for     |
|                 |         |            |         | TGD.            |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| TGPL1           | 4       | 4          | 4       |                 |
| (Transmission   |         |            |         |                 |
| Gap Pattern     |         |            |         |                 |
| Length)         |         |            |         |                 |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| TGPL2           | \-      | \-         | \-      | R99 and Rel-4:  |
| (Transmission   |         |            |         |                 |
| Gap Pattern     |         |            |         | Only one        |
| Length)         |         |            |         | pattern in use. |
|                 |         |            |         |                 |
|                 |         |            |         | Rel-5 and later |
|                 |         |            |         | releases: Not   |
|                 |         |            |         | applicable      |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| TGPRC           | NA      | NA         | NA      | Defined by      |
| (Transmission   |         |            |         | higher layers   |
| Gap Pattern     |         |            |         |                 |
| Repetition      |         |            |         |                 |
| Count)          |         |            |         |                 |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| TGCFN           | NA      | NA         | 0       | Defined by      |
| (Transmission   |         |            |         | higher layers   |
| Gap Connection  |         |            |         |                 |
| Frame Number):  |         |            |         |                 |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| UL/DL           | DL & UL | DL & UL    | DL & UL | 2               |
| compressed mode |         |            |         | configurations  |
| selection       |         |            |         | possible DL &UL |
|                 |         |            |         | / DL            |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| UL compressed   | SF/2    | SF/2       | SF/2    |                 |
| mode method     |         |            |         |                 |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| DL compressed   | SF/2    | Puncturing | SF/2    | Compressed mode |
| mode method     |         |            |         | by puncturing   |
|                 |         |            |         | is applicable   |
|                 |         |            |         | for R99 and     |
|                 |         |            |         | Rel-4 only.     |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| Downlink Slot   | 11B     | 11A        | 11B     | Downlink frame  |
| format          |         |            |         | type is         |
|                 |         |            |         | specified per   |
|                 |         |            |         | individual      |
|                 |         |            |         | test. If it is  |
|                 |         |            |         | not specified   |
|                 |         |            |         | either downlink |
|                 |         |            |         | frame type A or |
|                 |         |            |         | B can be used   |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| Scrambling code | No      | No         | No      |                 |
| change          |         |            |         |                 |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| RPP (Recovery   | 0       | 0          | 0       |                 |
| period power    |         |            |         |                 |
| control mode)   |         |            |         |                 |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+
| ITP (Initial    | 0       | 0          | 0       |                 |
| transmission    |         |            |         |                 |
| power control   |         |            |         |                 |
| mode)           |         |            |         |                 |
+-----------------+---------+------------+---------+-----------------+

Table C.5.2: Compressed mode reference pattern 2 parameters

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Pa      | Set 1   | Set 2   | Set 3   | Set 4   | Set 5   | Note    |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| TGSN    | 4       | 4       | 10      | 8       | 10      |         |
| (Trans  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mission |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Gap     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| S       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tarting |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Slot    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Number) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| TGL1    | 7       | 7       | 10      | 14      | 10      |         |
| (Trans  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mission |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Gap     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Length  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1)      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| TGL2    | \-      | \-      | \-      | \-      | \-      | Only    |
| (Trans  |         |         |         |         |         | one gap |
| mission |         |         |         |         |         | in use. |
| Gap     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Length  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2)      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| TGD     | 0       | 0       | 0       | 0       | 0       | UN      |
| (Trans  |         |         |         |         |         | DEFINED |
| mission |         |         |         |         |         | is used |
| Gap     |         |         |         |         |         | for     |
| Di      |         |         |         |         |         | TGD.    |
| stance) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| TGPL1   | 3       | 12      | 11      | 4       | 8       |         |
| (Trans  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mission |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Gap     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Pattern |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Length) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| TGPL2   | \-      | \-      | \-      | \-      | \-      | R99 and |
| (Trans  |         |         |         |         |         | Rel-4:  |
| mission |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Gap     |         |         |         |         |         | Only    |
| Pattern |         |         |         |         |         | one     |
| Length) |         |         |         |         |         | pattern |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | in use. |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Rel-5   |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | and     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | later   |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | re      |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | leases: |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Not     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | app     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | licable |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| TGPRC   | NA      | NA      | NA      | NA      | NA      | Defined |
| (Trans  |         |         |         |         |         | by      |
| mission |         |         |         |         |         | higher  |
| Gap     |         |         |         |         |         | layers  |
| Pattern |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Rep     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| etition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Count)  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| TGCFN   | NA      | NA      | NA      | NA      | NA      | Defined |
| (Trans  |         |         |         |         |         | by      |
| mission |         |         |         |         |         | higher  |
| Gap     |         |         |         |         |         | layers  |
| Con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Frame   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| N       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| umber): |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| UL/DL   | DL & UL | DL & UL | DL & UL | DL & UL | DL & UL | 2       |
| com     |         |         |         |         |         | configu |
| pressed |         |         |         |         |         | rations |
| mode    |         |         |         |         |         | po      |
| se      |         |         |         |         |         | ssible. |
| lection |         |         |         |         |         | DL & UL |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | / DL    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| UL      | SF/2    | SF/2    | SF/2    | SF/2    | SF/2    |         |
| com     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pressed |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mode    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| method  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| DL      | SF/2    | SF/2    | Pun     | SF/2    | SF/2    | Com     |
| com     |         |         | cturing |         |         | pressed |
| pressed |         |         |         |         |         | mode by |
| mode    |         |         |         |         |         | pun     |
| method  |         |         |         |         |         | cturing |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | is      |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | app     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | licable |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | for R99 |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | and     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Rel-4   |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | only.   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| D       | 11B     | 11B     | 11A     | 11B     | 11B     | D       |
| ownlink |         |         |         |         |         | ownlink |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         | frame   |
| Slot    |         |         |         |         |         | type is |
| format  |         |         |         |         |         | sp      |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | ecified |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | per     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | ind     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | ividual |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | test.   |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | If it   |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | is not  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | sp      |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | ecified |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | either  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | d       |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | ownlink |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | frame   |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | type A  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | or B    |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | can be  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | used    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Scr     | No      | No      | No      | No      | No      |         |
| ambling |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| code    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| change  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| RPP     | 0       | 0       | 0       | 0       | 0       |         |
| (R      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ecovery |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| period  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| control |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mode)   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| ITP     | 0       | 0       | 0       | 0       | 0       |         |
| (       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Initial |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| trans   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mission |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| control |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mode)   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Table C.5.3: Compressed mode reference pattern 3 parameters

  --------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Parameter                                           Set 1     Set 2     Set 3     Set 4     Note
  TGSN (Transmission Gap Starting Slot Number)        8         8         8         8         
  TGL1 (Transmission Gap Length 1)                    14        14        14        14        
  TGL2 (Transmission Gap Length 2)                    \-        \-        \-        \-        Only one gap in use.
  TGD (Transmission Gap Distance)                     0         0         0         0         UNDEFINED is used for TGD.
  TGPL1 (Transmission Gap Pattern Length)             8         24        24        24        
  TGPRC (Transmission Gap Pattern Repetition Count)   NA        NA        NA        NA        Defined by higher layers
  TGCFN (Transmission Gap Connection Frame Number):   0         4         12        20        
  UL/DL compressed mode selection                     DL & UL   DL & UL   DL & UL   DL & UL   2 configurations possible. DL & UL / DL
  UL compressed mode method                           SF/2      SF/2      SF/2      SF/2      
  DL compressed mode method                           SF/2      SF/2      SF/2      SF/2      
  Downlink and Slot format                            11B       11B       11B       11B       Downlink frame type is specified per individual test. If it is not specified either downlink frame type A or B can be used
  Scrambling code change                              No        No        No        No        
  RPP (Recovery period power control mode)            0         0         0         0         
  ITP (Initial transmission power control mode)       0         0         0         0         
  --------------------------------------------------- --------- --------- --------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

C.6 Auxiliary measurement channels
==================================

C.6.1 Introduction
------------------

BLER measurements for test cases where the UL data rate is less or equal
to the DL data rate require that special auxiliary measurement channels
(AUXMC) are used. This annex specifies the alternative auxiliary
measurement channels and the UE test loop mode parameters to be used for
the different UL and DL data rate combinations.

C.6.2 Channel combinations for BLER measurements
------------------------------------------------

Table C.6.2: BLER test method and measurement channels for BLER tests
for UL DL data rate combinations

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| DL rate | UE UL   | BLER    | DL RMC  | UL RMC  | UE test | C       |
|         | RMC     |         |         |         | loop    | omments |
| \       | rate    | Test    |         |         | mode    |         |
| [kbps\] | cap     | method  |         |         |         |         |
|         | ability |         |         |         | (Note   |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | 1)      |         |
|         | \       |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | [kbps\] |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 12.2    | RMC     | L       | DL TM   | UL TM   | 2       | Perform |
|         | 12.2    | oopback | RMC     | AUXMC   |         | test in |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | CS      |
|         |         | D       | 12.2    | 12.2    |         | domain. |
|         |         | ata+CRC | kbps    | kbps,   |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | no CRC  |         |         |
|         |         |         | See     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | C.3.1   | See     |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | C.6.3   |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 64      | RMC     | AM      | DL AM   | UL AM   | 1       | DL RLC  |
|         | 12.2    | A       | RMC     | AUXMC   |         | SDU     |
|         |         | CK/NACK |         |         |         | si      |
|         |         |         | 64 kbps | 12.2    |         | ze=1248 |
|         |         |         |         | kbps    |         |         |
|         |         |         | See     |         |         | UL RLC  |
|         |         |         | C.3.2   | See     |         | SDU     |
|         |         |         |         | C.6.7   |         | size=0  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | See     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Note 2  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Perform |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | test in |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | PS      |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | domain. |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 64      | RMC     | AM      | DL AM   | UL AM   | 1       | DL RLC  |
|         | 12.2    | A       | RMC     | AUXMC   |         | SDU     |
|         |         | CK/NACK |         |         |         | s       |
|         |         |         | 64 kbps | 12.2    |         | ize=304 |
|         |         |         |         | kbps    |         |         |
|         |         |         | See     |         |         | UL RLC  |
|         |         |         | C.3.5   | See     |         | SDU     |
|         |         |         |         | C.6.8   |         | size=0  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | See     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Note 5  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Perform |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | test in |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | PS      |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | domain. |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 144     | RMC     | AM      | DL AM   | UL AM   | 1       | DL RLC  |
|         | 12.2    | A       | RMC     | AUXMC   |         | SDU     |
|         |         | CK/NACK |         |         |         | si      |
|         |         |         | 144     | 12.2    |         | ze=2848 |
|         |         |         | kbps    | kbps    |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | UL RLC  |
|         |         |         | See     | See     |         | SDU     |
|         |         |         | C.3.3   | C.6.7   |         | size=0  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | See     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Note 3  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Perform |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | test in |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | PS      |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | domain. |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 384     | RMC     | AM      | DL AM   | UL AM   | 1       | DL RLC  |
|         | 12.2    | A       | RMC     | AUXMC   |         | SDU     |
|         |         | CK/NACK |         |         |         | si      |
|         |         |         | 384     | 12.2    |         | ze=3808 |
|         |         |         | kbps    | kbps    |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | UL RLC  |
|         |         |         | See     | See     |         | SDU     |
|         |         |         | C.3.4   | C.6.7   |         | size=0  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | See     |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Note 4  |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | Perform |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | test in |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | PS      |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | domain. |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Note 1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| See TS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 34.109  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[4\]   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| details |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| garding |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UE test |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| loop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| modes.  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| See TS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 34.109  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[4\]   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Annex   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| A.3 for |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| desc    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ription |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| BLER    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| method  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| using   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TM      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| channel |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and UE  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| loop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mode 2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (L      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| oopback |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Dat     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a+CRC). |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| See TS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 34.109  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[4\]   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Annex   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| A.2 for |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| BLER    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| method  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| using   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| AM      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| hannels |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and UE  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| loop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| mode 1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (AM     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| /NACK). |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The DL  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| AM RMC  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for 64  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| kbps    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ac      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cording |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| clause  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C.3.2   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C.3.2.3 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| has     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payload |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size =  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1264    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and TTI |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| = 20    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ms. The |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SS      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sends   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one RLC |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SDU of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1248    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payload |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size of |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1264    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits -- |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 16 bits |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| length  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dicator |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ex      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tension |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| every   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| d       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ownlink |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI (20 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ms).    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The UE  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| loop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| "UL RLC |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SDU     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size"   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is set  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to 0    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (no     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| data    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| will be |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| turned) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| order   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| avoid   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UE      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| buffer  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ove     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rflows. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 3  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The DL  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| AM RMC  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for 144 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| kbps    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ac      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cording |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| clause  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C.3.3   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C.3.3.3 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| has     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payload |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size =  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2864    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and TTI |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| = 20    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ms. The |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SS      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sends   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one RLC |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SDU of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2848    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payload |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size of |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2864    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits -- |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 16 bits |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| length  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dicator |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ex      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tension |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| every   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| d       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ownlink |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI (20 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ms).    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The UE  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| loop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| "UL RLC |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SDU     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size"   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is set  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to 0    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (no     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| data    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| will be |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| turned) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| order   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| avoid   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UE      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| buffer  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ove     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rflows. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 4  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The DL  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| AM RMC  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for 384 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| kbps    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ac      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cording |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| clause  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C.3.4   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C.3.4.3 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| has a   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payload |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size of |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3824    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and a   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 10 ms.  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The SS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sends   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one RLC |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SDU of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3808    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (=      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payload |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size of |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3824    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits -- |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 16 bits |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| length  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dicator |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ex      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tension |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| every   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| d       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ownlink |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI (10 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ms).    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The UE  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| loop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| "UL RLC |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SDU     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size"   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| set to  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0 (no   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| data    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| will be |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| turned) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| order   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| avoid   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UE      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| buffer  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ove     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rflows. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 5  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The DL  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| AM RMC  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for 64  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| kbps    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ac      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cording |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| clause  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C.3.5   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| table   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C.3.5.2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| has a   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payload |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size of |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 320     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and a   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 20 ms.  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The SS  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sends   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one RLC |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SDU of  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 304     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (=      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payload |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size of |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 320bits |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -- 16   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bits    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| length  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dicator |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ex      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tension |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bit)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| every   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| d       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ownlink |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI (20 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ms).    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The UE  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| loop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| pa      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rameter |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| "UL RLC |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SDU     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| size"   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| set to  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0 (no   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| data    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| will be |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| turned) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| order   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| avoid   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UE      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| buffer  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ove     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rflows. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

C.6.3 UL auxiliary reference measurement channel (TM, 12.2 kbps, no CRC)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table C.6.3: UL AUXMC TM 12.2 kbps (13 kbps), no CRC

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 260          | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 13000        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 260          | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*260       | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*260       | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Convolution  | Convolution  |        |
|              |              | Coding       | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | 1/3          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 0            | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 804          | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 402          | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

C.6.3A UL auxiliary reference measurement channel (TM, 0 kbps and 12.2 kbps, no CRC)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table C.6.3A: UL AUXMC TM 0 kbps (400 bps) and 12.2 kbps (13 kbps), no
CRC

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 260/16       | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 13000/400    | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 260          | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*260       | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*260       | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF2, bits    | 1\*16        | \-     |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Convolution  | Convolution  |        |
|              |              | Coding       | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | 1/3          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 0            | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 804          | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 402          | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

C.6.4 Void
----------

Table C.6.4: Void

C.6.5 Void
----------

Table C.6.5: Void

C.6.6 Void
----------

Table C.6.6: Void

C.6.7 UL AUXMC AM 12.2 kbps
---------------------------

Table C.6.7: UL AUXMC AM 12.2 kbps (11.2 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | AM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 224          | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 11200        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | 16           | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | N/A          | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 240          | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*240       | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*240       | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Convolution  | Convolution  |        |
|              |              | Coding       | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | 1/3          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 792          | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 396          | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

C.6.8 UL AUXMC AM 12.2 kbps(DCCH with TB size of 148bit)
--------------------------------------------------------

Table C.6.8: UL AUXMC AM 12.2 kbps (11.2 kbps) (DCCH with TB size of
148bit)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | AM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 224          | 136/128      |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 11200        | 3400/3200    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | 16           | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | N/A          | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 240          | 148          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*240       | 0\*148 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*240       | 1\*148 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Convolution  | Convolution  |        |
|              |              | Coding       | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | 1/3          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 16           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 792          | 516          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 396          | 129          |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

C.7 DL reference parameters for PCH tests
=========================================

The parameters for the PCH demodulation tests are specified in table
C.7.1 and table C.7.2.

Table C.7.1: Physical channel parameters for S-CCPCH

  --------------------------------------------------------------- ------ -------
  Parameter                                                       Unit   Level
  Channel bit rate                                                Kbps   60
  Channel symbol rate                                             Ksps   30
  Slot Format \#I                                                 \-     4
  TFCI                                                            \-     OFF
  Power offsets of TFCI and Pilot fields relative to data field   dB     0
  --------------------------------------------------------------- ------ -------

Table C.7.2: Transport channel parameters for S-CCPCH

  --------------------------------- --------------------
  Parameter                         PCH
  Transport Channel Number          1
  Transport Block Size              240
  Transport Block Set Size          240
  Transmission Time Interval        10 ms
  Type of Error Protection          Convolution Coding
  Coding Rate                       ½
  Rate Matching attribute           256
  Size of CRC                       16
  Position of TrCH in radio frame   fixed
  --------------------------------- --------------------

C.8 DL reference channel parameters for HSDPA tests
===================================================

C.8.1 Fixed Reference Channel (FRC)
-----------------------------------

### C.8.1.1 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 1/1A/1B/1C

Table C.8.1.1: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 1/1A/1B/1C

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------- -------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Unit        Value   
  Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               kbps        534     777
  Inter-TTI Distance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TTI's       3       3
  Number of HARQ Processes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Processes   2       2
  Information Bit Payload ()                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bits        3202    4664
  Number Code Blocks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Blocks      1       1
  Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bits        4800    7680
  Total Available SML's in UE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SML's       19200   19200
  Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SML's       9600    9600
  Coding Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.67    0.61
  Number of Physical Channel Codes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Codes       5       4
  Modulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           QPSK    16QAM
  Note: The HS-DSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power but only every third TTI shall be allocated to the UE under test. The values in the table defines H-Set 1. H-Set 1A for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA is formed by applying H-Set 1 to each of the carriers available in DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA mode. H-Set 1B and H-Set 1C for 4C-HSDPA are formed by applying H-Set 1 to each of the carriers available in 4C-HSDPA mode (3 carriers for H-Set 1B and 4 carriers for H-Set 1C).                       
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------- -------

Figure C.8.1: Coding rate for Fixed reference Channel H-Set 1 (QPSK)

Figure C.8.2: Coding rate for Fixed reference Channel H-Set 1 (16 QAM)

### C.8.1.2 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 2

Table C.8.1.2: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 2

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------- -------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                   Unit        Value   
  Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                  kbps        801     1166
  Inter-TTI Distance                                                                                                                          TTI's       2       2
  Number of HARQ Processes                                                                                                                    Processes   3       3
  Information Bit Payload ()                                                                                                                  Bits        3202    4664
  MAC-d PDU size                                                                                                                              Bits        336     336
  Number Code Blocks                                                                                                                          Blocks      1       1
  Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                                                                                                                 Bits        4800    7680
  Total Available SML's in UE                                                                                                                 SML's       28800   28800
  Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.                                                                                                              SML's       9600    9600
  Coding Rate                                                                                                                                             0.67    0.61
  Number of Physical Channel Codes                                                                                                            Codes       5       4
  Modulation                                                                                                                                              QPSK    16QAM
  Note: The HS-DSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power but only every second TTI shall be allocated to the UE under test                       
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------- -------

Figure C.8.3: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 2 (QPSK)

Figure C.8.4: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 2 (16QAM)

### C.8.1.3 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 3/3A/3B/3C

Table C.8.1.3: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 3/3A/3B/3C

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------- -------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Unit        Value   
  Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          kbps        1601    2332
  Inter-TTI Distance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TTI's       1       1
  Number of HARQ Processes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Processes   6       6
  Information Bit Payload ()                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bits        3202    4664
  Number Code Blocks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Blocks      1       1
  Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bits        4800    7680
  Total Available SML's,in UE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SML's       57600   57600
  Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SML's       9600    9600
  Coding Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.67    0.61
  Number of Physical Channel Codes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Codes       5       4
  Modulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      QPSK    16QAM
  Note: The values in the table defines H-Set 3. H-Set 3A for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA is formed by applying H-Set 3 to each of the carriers available in DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA mode. H-Set 3B and H-Set 3C for4C-HSDPA are formed by applying H-Set 3 to each of the carriers available in 4C-HSDPA mode (3 carriers for H-Set 3B and 4 carriers for H-Set 3C).                       
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------- -------

Figure C.8.5: Coding rate for Fixed reference Channel H-Set 3 (QPSK)

Figure C.8.6: Coding rate for Fixed reference Channel H-Set 3 (16QAM)

### C.8.1.4 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 4

Table C.8.1.4: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 4

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- -------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Unit        Value

  Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                       kbps        534

  Inter-TTI Distance                                                                                                                                                                                                               TTI's       2

  Number of HARQ Processes                                                                                                                                                                                                         Processes   2

  Information Bit Payload ()                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bits        3202

  MAC-d PDU Size                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bits        336

  Number Code Blocks                                                                                                                                                                                                               Blocks      1

  Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bits        4800

  Total Available SML's in UE                                                                                                                                                                                                      SML's       14400

  Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.                                                                                                                                                                                                   SML's       7200

  Coding Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.67

  Number of Physical Channel Codes                                                                                                                                                                                                 Codes       5

  Modulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   QPSK

  Note: This FRC is used to verify the minimum inter-TTI distance for UE category 11. The HS-PDSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power. The six sub-frame HS-SCCH signalling pattern shall repeat as follows:\               
  ...OOXOXOOOXOXO...,\                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  where 'X' marks TTI in which HS-SCCH uses the identity of the UE under test and 'O' marks TTI in which HS-SCCH uses a different identity.                                                                                                    
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- -------

Figure C.8.7: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 4

### C.8.1.5 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 5

Table C.8.1.5: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 5

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- -------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Unit        Value

  Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                       kbps        801

  Inter-TTI Distance                                                                                                                                                                                                               TTI's       1

  Number of HARQ Processes                                                                                                                                                                                                         Processes   3

  Information Bit Payload ()                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bits        3202

  MAC-d PDU Size                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bits        336

  Number Code Blocks                                                                                                                                                                                                               Blocks      1

  Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bits        4800

  Total Available SML's in UE                                                                                                                                                                                                      SML's       28800

  Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.                                                                                                                                                                                                   SML's       9600

  Coding Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.67

  Number of Physical Channel Codes                                                                                                                                                                                                 Codes       5

  Modulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   QPSK

  Note: This FRC is used to verify the minimum inter-TTI distance for UE category 12. The HS-PDSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power. The six sub-frame HS-SCCH signalling pattern shall repeat as follows:\               
  ...OOXXXOOOXXXO...,\                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  where 'X' marks TTI in which HS-SCCH uses the identity of the UE under test and 'O' marks TTI in which HS-SCCH uses a different identity.                                                                                                    
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- -------

Figure C.8.8: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 5

### C.8.1.6 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 6/6A/6B/6C

Table C.8.1.6: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 6/6A/6B/6C

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- -------- --------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Unit        Value    
  Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           kbps        3219     4689
  Inter-TTI Distance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TTI's       1        1
  Number of HARQ Processes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Processes   6        6
  Information Bit Payload ()                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bits        6438     9377
  Number Code Blocks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Blocks      2        2
  Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bits        9600     15360
  Total Available SML's in UE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SML's       115200   115200
  Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SML's       19200    19200
  Coding Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.67     0.61
  Number of Physical Channel Codes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Codes       10       8
  Modulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       QPSK     16QAM
  Note: The values in the table defines H-Set 6. H-Set 6A for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA is formed by applying H-Set 6 to each of the carriers available in DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA mode. H-Set 6B and H-Set 6C for 4C-HSDPA are formed by applying H-Set 6 to each of the carriers available in 4C-HSDPA mode (3 carriers for H-Set 6B and 4 carriers for H-Set 6C).                        
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- -------- --------

Figure C.8.9: Coding rate for Fixed reference Channel H-Set 6 (QPSK)

Figure C.8.10: Coding rate for Fixed reference Channel H-Set 6 (16 QAM)

### C.8.1.7 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 7

Table C.8.1.7: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 7

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- -------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                           Unit     Value
  Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                          kbps     37.8
  Inter-TTI Distance                                                                                                                                                                  TTI's    8
  Information Bit Payload ()                                                                                                                                                          Bits     605
  Number Code Blocks                                                                                                                                                                  Blocks   1
  Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                                                                                                                                                         Bits     960
  Coding Rate                                                                                                                                                                                  0.66
  Number of Physical Channel Codes                                                                                                                                                    Codes    1
  Modulation                                                                                                                                                                                   QPSK
  Note: This FRC is used to verify CPC operation. The HS-DSCH shall be transmitted continuously with constant power but only every 8th TTI shall be allocated to the UE under test.            
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------- -------

Figure C.8.11: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 7 (QPSK)

### C.8.1.8 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 8/8A/8B/8C

Table C.8.1.8: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 8/8A/8B/8C

+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Parameter                           | Unit      | Value  |        |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate          | kbps      | 13252  |        |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Inter-TTI Distance                  | TTI's     | 1      |        |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Number of HARQ Processes            | Processes | 6      |        |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Information Bit Payload ()          | Bits      | 26504  |        |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Number Code Blocks                  | Blocks    | 6      |        |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Binary Channel Bits Per TTI         | Bits      | 43200  |        |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Total Available SML's in UE         | SML's     | 259200 | 264000 |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.      | SML's     | 43200  | 44000  |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Coding Rate                         |           | 0.61   | 0.60   |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Number of Physical Channel Codes    | Codes     | 15     |        |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Modulation                          |           | 64QAM  |        |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+
| Note 1: The values in the table     |           |        |        |
| define H-Set 8. H-Set 8A for        |           |        |        |
| DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA is formed  |           |        |        |
| by applying H-Set 8 to each of the  |           |        |        |
| carriers available in DC-HSDPA and  |           |        |        |
| DB-DC-HSDPA mode. H-Set 8B and      |           |        |        |
| H-Set 8C for 4C-HSDPA are formed by |           |        |        |
| applying H-Set 8 to each of the     |           |        |        |
| carriers available in 4C-HSDPA mode |           |        |        |
| (3 carriers for H-Set 8B and 4      |           |        |        |
| carriers for H-Set 8C).             |           |        |        |
|                                     |           |        |        |
| Note 2: If "Total number of soft    |           |        |        |
| channel bits" as per HS-DSCH        |           |        |        |
| categories is equal to 259200, set  |           |        |        |
| "Number of SML's per HARQ Proc." As |           |        |        |
| 43200 using an implicit UE IR       |           |        |        |
| Buffer Size Allocation.             |           |        |        |
|                                     |           |        |        |
| > If "Total number of soft channel  |           |        |        |
| > bits" is larger than or equal to  |           |        |        |
| > 264000, set "Number of SML's per  |           |        |        |
| > HARQ Proc." As 44000 using an     |           |        |        |
| > explicit UE IR Buffer Size        |           |        |        |
| > Allocation.                       |           |        |        |
+-------------------------------------+-----------+--------+--------+

![](media/image43.wmf){width="6.638888888888889in" height="2.66875in"}

Figure C.8.12: Coding rate for Fixed reference Channel H-Set 8 (64 QAM)

### C.8.1.9 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 9/9A/9B/9C

Table C.8.1.9: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 9/9A

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- --------- -----------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Unit        Value     
  Transport block                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Primary   Secondary
  Combined Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13652     
  Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           kbps        8784      4868
  Inter-TTI Distance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TTI's       1         1
  Number of HARQ Processes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Processes   6         6
  Information Bit Payload ()                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bits        17568     9736
  Number Code Blocks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Blocks      4         2
  Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bits        28800     14400
  Total available SML\'s in UE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bits        345600    
  Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SML's       28800     28800
  Coding Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.61      0.68
  Number of Physical Channel Codes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Codes       15        15
  Modulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16QAM     QPSK
  Note: The values in the table defines H-Set 9. H-Set 9A for DC-HSDPA is formed by applying H-Set 9 to each of the carriers available in DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA mode. H-Set 9B and H-Set 9C for 4C-HSDPA are formed by applying H-Set 9 to each of the carriers available in 4C-HSDPA mode (3 carriers for H-Set 9B and 4 carriers for H-Set 9C).                         
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- --------- -----------

Figure C.8.13: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 9/9A
Primary Transport Block

![](media/image2.wmf){width="6.641666666666667in"
height="2.8333333333333335in"}

Figure C.8.14: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 9/9A
Secondary Transport Block

### C.8.1.10 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 10/10A/10B/10C

Table C.8.1.10: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 10/10A/10B/10C

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------- -------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Unit        Value   
  Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kbps        8774    4860
  Inter-TTI Distance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TTI's       1       1
  Number of HARQ Processes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Processes   6       6
  Information Bit Payload                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bits        17548   9719
  Number Code Blocks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Blocks      4       2
  Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bits        28800   14400
  Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SML's       28800   28800
  Coding Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6     0.67
  Number of Physical Channel Codes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Codes       15      15
  Modulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16QAM   QPSK
  Note: The values in the table defines H-Set 10. H-Set 10A for DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA is formed by applying H-Set 10 to each of the carriers available in DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA mode. H-Set 10B and H-Set 10C for 4C-HSDPA are formed by applying H-Set 10 to each of the carriers available in 4C-HSDPA mode (3 carriers for H-Set 10B and 4 carriers for H-Set 10C).                       
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- ------- -------

Figure C.8.15: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 10 (16QAM)

Figure C.8.16: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 10 (QPSK)

### C.8.1.11 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 11/11A/11B/11C

Table C.8.1.11: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 11/11A

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- --------- -----------
  Parameter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Unit        Value     
  Transport block                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Primary   Secondary
  Combined Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22074     
  Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 kbps        13300     8774
  Inter-TTI Distance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TTI's       1         1
  Number of HARQ Processes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Processes   6         6
  Information Bit Payload ()                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bits        26504     17568
  Number Code Blocks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Blocks      6         4
  Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bits        43200     28800
  Total available SML\'s in UE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bits        518400    
  Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SML's       43200     43200
  Coding Rate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.61      0.6
  Number of Physical Channel Codes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Codes       15        15
  Modulation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             64QAM     16QAM
  Note: The values in the table defines H-Set 11. H-Set 11A for DC-HSDPA is formed by applying H-Set 11 to each of the carriers available in DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA mode. H-Set 11B and H-Set 11C for 4C-HSDPA are formed by applying H-Set 11 and H-Set 11C to each of the carriers available in 4C-HSDPA mode (3 carriers for H-Set 11B and 4 carriers for H-Set 11C).                         
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------- --------- -----------

Figure C.8.17: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 11/11A
Primary Transport Block

Figure C.8.18: Coding rate for Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 11/11A
Secondary Transport Block

### C.8.1.12 Fixed Reference Channel Definition H-Set 12

> Table C.8.1.12: Fixed Reference Channel H-Set 12

+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Parameter                                      | Unit      | Value |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Nominal Avg. Inf. Bit Rate                     | kbps      | 60    |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Inter-TTI Distance                             | TTI's     | 1     |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Number of HARQ Processes                       | Processes | 6     |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Information Bit Payload ()                     | Bits      | 120   |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Number Code Blocks                             | Blocks    | 1     |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Binary Channel Bits Per TTI                    | Bits      | 960   |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Total Available SML's in UE                    | SML's     | 19200 |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Number of SML's per HARQ Proc.                 | SML's     | 3200  |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Coding Rate                                    |           | 0.15  |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Number of Physical Channel Codes               | Codes     | 1     |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Modulation                                     |           | QPSK  |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+
| Note 1: The RMC is intended to be used for     |           |       |
| DC-HSDPA mode and both cells shall transmit    |           |       |
| with identical parameters as listed in the     |           |       |
| table.                                         |           |       |
|                                                |           |       |
| Note 2: Maximum number of transmission is      |           |       |
| limited to 1, i.e., retransmission is not      |           |       |
| allowed. The redundancy and constellation      |           |       |
| version 0 shall be used.                       |           |       |
+------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------+

Figure C.8.19: Coding rate for Fixed reference Channel H-Set 12 (QPSK)

C.9 Downlink reference channel dummy DCCH transmission on DCH
=============================================================

Many test cases have been designed to have continuous downlink DCCH
transmission on DCH. The DCCH is carrying SRBs. When there are no
signalling messages to be transmitted on downlink DCCH then dummy DCCH
messages shall be transmitted on the downlink.

For all test cases with continuous downlink DCCH transmission on DCH the
format of the dummy DCCH message is using an invalid MAC header with the
value "1111" for the C/T field. The UE shall discard PDU's with this
invalid MAC header according to TS 25.321. This applies for cases where
a MAC header is used to distinguish between several logical channels. In
the case of the reference measurement channels the SRBs on DCH use a 4
bit MAC header.

C.9A MAC header transmission on HS-DSCH
=======================================

For all test cases with HS-DSCH transmission either a correct MAC-hs
header consistent with the actual HSDPA transmission is used or an
inconsistent MAC-hs header with the value \"111\" for the SID field is
used. If an inconsistent MAC-hs header is used, then the UE shall
discard PDU\'s according to TS 25.321\[13\] section 10. For other fields
the MAC-hs header shall be set according to the HS-DSCH configuration
configured by RRC and the actual HS-DSCH transmission in order to avoid
unspecified UE behaviour.

C.10 UL reference channel parameters for HSDPA tests
====================================================

This annex specifies the UL reference channels in for HSDPA test cases
and the UE test loop mode parameters to be used when the UL reference
measurement channel (12.2 kbps) from C.2.1 does not support the required
test conditions. Transmitter characteristics tests with HS-DPCCH require
continuous transmission and test loop operation on UL DPCH.

C.10.1 UL reference measurement channel for HSDPA tests
-------------------------------------------------------

Table C.10.1.1 to C.10.1.4 are applicable for tests on Transmitter
Characteristics with HSDPA in clauses 5.2A, 5.2C, 5.2AA, 5.7A, 5.9A,
5.10A, 5.13.1A and 5.13.1AA.

Table C.10.1.1: UL reference measurement channel physical parameters
(12.2 kbps) for HSDPA tests

+--------------------------------------------+----------------+------+
| Parameter                                  | Level          | Unit |
+--------------------------------------------+----------------+------+
| DPCCH/DPDCH power ratio                    | −5.46 (Note 1) | dB   |
+--------------------------------------------+----------------+------+
| Note 1: The power ratio for transmitter    |                |      |
| characteristics testing with HS-DPCCH      |                |      |
| depends on the beta values given in table  |                |      |
| C.10.1.4.                                  |                |      |
|                                            |                |      |
| Note 2: With the exception of the          |                |      |
| DPCCH/DPDCH power ratio parameter in this  |                |      |
| table all other parameters are defined in  |                |      |
| UL reference measurement channel in clause |                |      |
| C.2.1, table C.2.1.1.                      |                |      |
+--------------------------------------------+----------------+------+

Table C.10.1.2: UL reference measurement channel, transport channel
parameters (12.2 kbps) for HSDPA

+---------------------------+-------------------+-----+-----+
| Higher                    | RAB/Signalling RB | RAB | SRB |
|                           |                   |     |     |
| Layer                     |                   |     |     |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-----+-----+
| Note: As defined in UL    |                   |     |     |
| reference measurement     |                   |     |     |
| channel in clause C.2.1,  |                   |     |     |
| table C.2.1.2.            |                   |     |     |
+---------------------------+-------------------+-----+-----+

Table C.10.1.3: UL reference measurement channel, TFCS (12.2 kbps) for
HSDPA

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Note: As defined in UL reference measurement channel in clause C.2.1, table C.2.1.3.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table C.10.1.4: β values for transmitter characteristics tests with
HS-DPCCH

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Sub   | β~c~  | β~d~  | β~d~  | β~c~  | β~HS~ | CM    | MPR   |
| -test |       |       |       | /β~d~ |       | (dB)  | (dB)  |
|       |       |       | *     |       | (*N   |       |       |
|       |       |       | (SF)* |       | ote1, | *     | *     |
|       |       |       |       |       | Note  | (Note | (Note |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2*)   | 3)*   | 3)*   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | 2/15  | 15/15 | 64    | 2/15  | 4/15  | 0.0   | 0.0   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 2     | 12/15 | 15/15 | 64    | 12/15 | 24/15 | 1.0   | 0.0   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | *     | *     |       | *     |       |       |       |
|       | (Note | (Note |       | (Note |       |       |       |
|       | 4)*   | 4)*   |       | 4)*   |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 3     | 15/15 | 8/15  | 64    | 15/8  | 30/15 | 1.5   | 0.5   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 4     | 15/15 | 4/15  | 64    | 15/4  | 30/15 | 1.5   | 0.5   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆~    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ACK~, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆~    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NACK~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ~CQI~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 30/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| !     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 25in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hei   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ght=" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 0.25i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n"}=  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 30/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|  \* ! |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage5 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 20833 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 34in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| he    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ight= |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| "0.25 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in"}. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DPCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mask  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.2C, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.7A, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Error |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| V     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ector |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Magn  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| itude |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (EVM) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DPCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.1A, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HSDPA |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EVM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| phase |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dis   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| conti |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nuity |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.13  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .1AA, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ~ACK~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆~    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NACK~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 30/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| !     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 25in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hei   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ght=" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 0.25i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n"}=  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 30/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|  \* ! |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage5 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 20833 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 34in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| he    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ight= |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| "0.25 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in"}, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆~CQ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| I~ =  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 24/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| !     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 25in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hei   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ght=" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 0.25i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n"}=  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 24/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|  \* ! |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage5 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 20833 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 34in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| he    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ight= |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| "0.25 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in"}. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: CM |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| = 1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~c~  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| /β~d~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =1    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2/15, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hs~/β |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ~c~=2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4/15. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| all   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| other |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| co    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbina |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| D     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PDCH, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DPCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DPCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MPR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| based |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rel   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ative |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| CM    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| d     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| iffer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ence. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| This  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| appli |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| only  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UEs   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| that  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pport |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HSDPA |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6 and |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| later |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rele  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ases. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2 the |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~c~  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| /β~d~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ratio |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 12/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TFC   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| d     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uring |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| eriod |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (TF1, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TF0)  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ach   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ieved |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| se    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sign  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| alled |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| gain  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fa    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ctors |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TFC   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (TF1, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TF1)  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~c~  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 11/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~d~  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5/15. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

C.10.2 UL reference measurement channel for HSDPA tests with UL OLTD/CLTD
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Editors note : For UL CLTD Mode 1 scenarios Table C.10.2.4 is
incomplete.

Tables C.10.2.1 to C.10.2.4 are applicable for tests on Transmitter
Characteristics with HSDPA and UL OLTD/CLTD.

Table C.10.2.1: UL reference measurement channel physical parameters
(12,2 kbps)

  ------------------------- ------- ------
  Parameter                 Level   Unit
  Information bit rate      12,2    kbps
  DPDCH                     60      kbps
  DPCCH                     15      kbps
  DPCCH Slot Format \#i     0       \-
  S-DPCCH                   15      kbps
  S-DPCCH Slot Format \#i   1       \-
  DPCCH/DPDCH power ratio   −5,46   dB
  TFCI                      On      \-
  Repetition                23      \%
  ------------------------- ------- ------

Table C.10.2.2: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (12.2 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 244          | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 12200        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 244          | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*244       | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*244       | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Convolution  | Convolution  |        |
|              |              | Coding       | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | 1/3          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 804          | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 402          | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.10.2.3: UL reference measurement channel, TFCS (12.2 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

NOTE: The TFCs except for (TF1, TF1) are belonging to minimum set of
TFCs.

Table C.10.2.4: β values for transmitter characteristics tests with
HS-DPCCH

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Sub   | β~c~  | β~d~  | β~d~  | β~c~  | β~HS~ | CM    | MPR   |
| -test | (*No  |       |       | /β~d~ |       | (dB)  | (dB)  |
|       | te5)* |       | *     |       | (*N   |       |       |
|       |       |       | (SF)* |       | ote1, | *     | *     |
|       |       |       |       |       | Note  | (Note | (Note |
|       |       |       |       |       | 2*)   | 3)*   | 3)*   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 1     | 2/15  | 15/15 | 64    | 2/15  | 4/15  | 0.0   | 0.0   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 2     | 12/15 | 15/15 | 64    | 12/15 | 24/15 | 1.0   | 0.0   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | *     | *     |       | *     |       |       |       |
|       | (Note | (Note |       | (Note |       |       |       |
|       | 4)*   | 4)*   |       | 4)*   |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 3     | 15/15 | 8/15  | 64    | 15/8  | 30/15 | 1.5   | 0.5   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 4     | 15/15 | 4/15  | 64    | 15/4  | 30/15 | 1.5   | 0.5   |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆~    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ACK~, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆~    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NACK~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ~CQI~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 30/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| !     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 25in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hei   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ght=" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 0.25i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n"}=  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 30/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|  \* ! |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage5 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 20833 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 34in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| he    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ight= |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| "0.25 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in"}. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DPCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mask  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| r     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| equir |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.2C, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.7A, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Error |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| V     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ector |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Magn  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| itude |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (EVM) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DPCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3.1A, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HSDPA |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| EVM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| phase |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dis   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| conti |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nuity |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lause |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5.13  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .1AA, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ~ACK~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆~    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NACK~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 30/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| !     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 25in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hei   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ght=" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 0.25i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n"}=  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 30/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|  \* ! |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage5 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 20833 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 34in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| he    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ight= |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| "0.25 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in"}, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆~CQ  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| I~ =  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 24/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| !     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage4 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 25in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hei   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ght=" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 0.25i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| n"}=  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 24/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|  \* ! |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage5 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 20833 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 34in" |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| he    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ight= |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| "0.25 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in"}. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3: CM |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| = 1   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~c~  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| /β~d~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =1    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2/15, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| hs~/β |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ~c~=2 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4/15. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| all   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| other |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| co    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mbina |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| D     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| PDCH, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DPCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HS-   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DPCCH |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| MPR   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| based |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| on    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rel   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ative |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| CM    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| d     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| iffer |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ence. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| This  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| appli |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| cable |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| only  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| UEs   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| that  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pport |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| HSDPA |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| re    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| lease |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 6 and |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| later |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rele  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ases. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| For   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| su    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| btest |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2 the |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~c~  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| /β~d~ |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ratio |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 12/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TFC   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| d     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| uring |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| m     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| easur |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ement |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| p     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| eriod |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (TF1, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TF0)  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ach   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ieved |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| se    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tting |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sign  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| alled |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| gain  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fa    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ctors |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| refe  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rence |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TFC   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (TF1, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TF1)  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| to    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~c~  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 11/15 |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~d~  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5/15. |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

C.11 Reference channel parameters for E-DCH tests
=================================================

This annex specifies the reference channel parameters for E-DCH test
cases.

C.11.1 UL reference measurement channel for E-DCH tests
-------------------------------------------------------

On uplink E-DCH the MAC-d flow parameters and the physical channel
parameters according to default Radio Bearer Setup message of section
9.2.1 of TS 34.108 are used. On uplink DCH the reference measurement
channel according to section C.2.1 is used with the exception that for
transmitter characteristics tests the DPCCH/DPDCH power ratio depends on
the beta values given in table C.11.1.3. For transmitter characteristics
tests the beta values on all uplink channels according to table
C.11.1.3. are used.

Table C.11.1.1: Void

Table C.11.1.2: Void

Table C.11.1.3: β values for transmitter characteristics tests with
HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Sub-test</td>
<td>β<sub>c</sub></td>
<td>β<sub>d</sub></td>
<td><p>β<sub>d</sub></p>
<p><em>(SF)</em></p></td>
<td>β<sub>c</sub>/β<sub>d</sub></td>
<td><p>β<sub>HS</sub></p>
<p><em>(Note1)</em></p></td>
<td>β<sub>ec</sub></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub></p>
<p><em>(Note 4)<br />
(Note 5)</em></p></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub></p>
<p><em>(SF)</em></p></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub></p>
<p><em>(Codes)</em></p></td>
<td><p>CM</p>
<p><em>(dB)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 2)</em></p></td>
<td><p>MPR</p>
<p><em>(dB)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 2)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 6)</em></p></td>
<td><p><em>AG</em></p>
<p><em>Index</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 5)</em></p></td>
<td><em>E-TFCI</em></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>1</td>
<td><p>11/15</p>
<p><em>(Note 3)</em></p></td>
<td><p>15/15</p>
<p><em>(Note 3)</em></p></td>
<td>64</td>
<td><p>11/15</p>
<p><em>(Note 3)</em></p></td>
<td>22/15</td>
<td>209/225</td>
<td>1309/225</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1.0</td>
<td>0.0</td>
<td>20</td>
<td>75</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2</td>
<td>6/15</td>
<td>15/15</td>
<td>64</td>
<td>6/15</td>
<td>12/15</td>
<td>12/15</td>
<td>94/75</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>3.0</td>
<td>2.0</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>67</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>3</td>
<td>15/15</td>
<td>9/15</td>
<td>64</td>
<td>15/9</td>
<td>30/15</td>
<td>30/15</td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub>1: 47/15</p>
<p>β<sub>ed</sub>2: 47/15</p></td>
<td><p>4</p>
<p>4</p></td>
<td>2</td>
<td>2.0</td>
<td>1.0</td>
<td>15</td>
<td>92</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>4</td>
<td>2/15</td>
<td>15/15</td>
<td>64</td>
<td>2/15</td>
<td>4/15</td>
<td>2/15</td>
<td>56/75</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>3.0</td>
<td>2.0</td>
<td>17</td>
<td>71</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>5</td>
<td>15/15</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>5/15</td>
<td>5/15</td>
<td>47/15</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1.0</td>
<td>0.0</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>67</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Note 1: For sub-test 1 to 4, ∆<sub>ACK</sub>, ∆<sub>NACK</sub> and ∆<sub>CQI</sub> = 30/15 with <img src="media/image4.wmf" style="width:0.25in;height:0.25in" />= 30/15 *<img src="media/image5.wmf" style="width:0.20833in;height:0.25in" />. For sub-test 5, ∆<sub>ACK</sub>, ∆<sub>NACK</sub> and ∆<sub>CQI</sub> = 5/15 with <img src="media/image4.wmf" style="width:0.25in;height:0.25in" />= 5/15 *<img src="media/image5.wmf" style="width:0.20833in;height:0.25in" />.</p>
<p>Note 2: CM = 1 for β<sub>c</sub>/β<sub>d</sub> =12/15, β<sub>hs</sub>/β<sub>c</sub>=24/15. For all other combinations of DPDCH, DPCCH, HS- DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH the MPR is based on the relative CM difference.</p>
<p>Note 3: For subtest 1 the β<sub>c</sub>/β<sub>d</sub> ratio of 11/15 for the TFC during the measurement period (TF1, TF0) is achieved by setting the signalled gain factors for the reference TFC (TF1, TF1) to β<sub>c</sub> = 10/15 and β<sub>d</sub> = 15/15.</p>
<p>Note 4: In case of testing by UE using E-DPDCH Physical Layer category 1, Sub-test 3 is omitted according to TS25.306 Table 5.1g.</p>
<p>Note 5: β<sub>ed</sub> can not be set directly; it is set by Absolute Grant Value.</p>
<p>Note 6: For subtests 2, 3 and 4, UE may perform E-DPDCH power scaling at max power which could results in slightly smaller MPR values.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table C.11.1.4: β values for transmitter characteristics tests with
HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Sub-test</td>
<td><p>β<sub>c</sub></p>
<p><em>(Note3)</em></p></td>
<td>β<sub>d</sub></td>
<td><p>β<sub>HS</sub></p>
<p><em>(Note1)</em></p></td>
<td>β<sub>ec</sub></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub></p>
<p><em>(2xSF2)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 4)</em></p></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub></p>
<p><em>(2xSF4)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 4)</em></p></td>
<td><p>CM</p>
<p><em>(dB)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 2)</em></p></td>
<td><p>MPR</p>
<p><em>(dB)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 2)</em></p></td>
<td><p><em>AG</em></p>
<p><em>Index</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 4)</em></p></td>
<td><em>E-TFCI (Note 5)</em></td>
<td><em>E-TFCI (boost)</em></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>30/15</td>
<td>30/15</td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub>1: 30/15</p>
<p>β<sub>ed</sub>2: 30/15</p></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub>3: 24/15</p>
<p>β<sub>ed</sub>4: 24/15</p></td>
<td>3.5</td>
<td>2.5</td>
<td>14</td>
<td>105</td>
<td>105</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Note 1: ∆<sub>ACK</sub>, ∆<sub>NACK</sub> and ∆<sub>CQI</sub> = 30/15 with <img src="media/image4.wmf" style="width:0.25in;height:0.25in" />= 30/15 * <img src="media/image5.wmf" style="width:0.20833in;height:0.25in" />.</p>
<p>Note 2: CM = 3.5 and the MPR is based on the relative CM difference, MPR = MAX(CM-1,0).</p>
<p>Note 3: DPDCH is not configured, therefore the β<sub>c</sub> is set to 1 and β<sub>d</sub> = 0 by default.</p>
<p>Note 4: β<sub>ed</sub> can not be set directly; it is set by Absolute Grant Value.</p>
<p>Note 5: All the sub-tests require the UE to transmit 2SF2+2SF4 16QAM EDCH and they apply for UE using E-DPDCH category 7. E-DCH TTI is set to 2ms TTI and E-DCH table index = 2. To support these E-DCH configurations DPDCH is not allocated. The UE is signalled to use the extrapolation algorithm.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

C.11.1A UL reference measurement channel for E-DCH tests with UL OLTD/CLTD
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Editors note: For UL CLTD Mode 1 scenarios Table C.11.1A.4 is
incomplete.

Table C.11.1A.1 to C.11.1A.5 are applicable for tests on Transmitter
Characteristics with HSDPA & E-DCH and UL OLTD/CLTD.

On uplink E-DCH the MAC-d flow parameters and the physical channel
parameters according to default Radio Bearer Setup message of
clause 9.2.1 of TS 34.108 are used. On uplink DCH the reference
measurement channel according to clause C.11.1A.1 is used with the
exception that for transmitter characteristics tests the DPCCH/DPDCH
power ratio depends on the beta values given in table C.11.1A.4. For
transmitter characteristics tests the beta values on all uplink channels
according to table C.11.1A.4. are used.

Table C.11.1A.1: UL reference measurement channel physical parameters
(12,2 kbps)

  ------------------------- ------- ------
  Parameter                 Level   Unit
  Information bit rate      12,2    kbps
  DPDCH                     60      kbps
  DPCCH                     15      kbps
  DPCCH Slot Format \#i     0       \-
  S-DPCCH                   15      kbps
  S-DPCCH Slot Format \#i   1       \-
  TFCI                      On      \-
  Repetition                23      \%
  ------------------------- ------- ------

On uplink E-DCH the MAC-d flow parameters and the physical channel
parameters according to default Radio Bearer Setup message of
clause 9.2.1 of TS 34.108 are used. On uplink DCH the reference
measurement channel according to table C.11.1A.1 to C.11.1A.3 are used
with the exception that for transmitter characteristics tests the
DPCCH/DPDCH power ratio depends on the beta values given in table
C.11.1A.4. For transmitter characteristics tests the beta values on all
uplink channels according to table C.11.1A.4. are used.

Table C.11.1A.2: UL reference measurement channel using RLC-TM for DTCH,
transport channel parameters (12.2 kbps)

+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Higher       | RA           | RAB          | SRB          |        |
|              | B/Signalling |              |              |        |
| Layer        | RB           |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| RLC          | Logical      | DTCH         | DCCH         |        |
|              | channel type |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | RLC mode     | TM           | UM/AM        |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Payload      | 244          | 88/80        |        |
|              | sizes, bit   |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max data     | 12200        | 2200/2000    |        |
|              | rate, bps    |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | PDU header,  | N/A          | 8/16         |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TrD PDU      | 0            | N/A          |        |
|              | header, bit  |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| MAC          | MAC header,  | 0            | 4            |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | MAC          | N/A          | Yes          |        |
|              | multiplexing |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| Layer 1      | TrCH type    | DCH          | DCH          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Transport    | 1            | 5            |        |
|              | Channel      |              |              |        |
|              | Identity     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TB sizes,    | 244          | 100          |        |
|              | bit          |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TFS          | TF0, bits    | 0\*244       | 0\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              |              | TF1, bits    | 1\*244       | 1\*100 |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | TTI, ms      | 20           | 40           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding type  | Convolution  | Convolution  |        |
|              |              | Coding       | Coding       |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Coding Rate  | 1/3          | 1/3          |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | CRC, bit     | 16           | 12           |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
|              | Max number   | 804          | 360          |        |
|              | of bits/TTI  |              |              |        |
|              | after        |              |              |        |
|              | channel      |              |              |        |
|              | coding       |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | Uplink: Max  | 402          | 90           |        |
| {.underline} | number of    |              |              |        |
|              | bits/radio   |              |              |        |
|              | frame before |              |              |        |
|              | rate         |              |              |        |
|              | matching     |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
| []           | RM attribute | 256          | 256          |        |
| {.underline} |              |              |              |        |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+

Table C.11.1A.3: UL reference measurement channel, TFCS (12.2 kbps)

+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS size | 4                                              |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
| TFCS      | (DTCH, DCCH)=                                  |
|           |                                                |
|           | (TF0, TF0), (TF1, TF0), (TF0, TF1), (TF1, TF1) |
+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

NOTE: The TFCs except for (TF1, TF1) are belonging to minimum set of
TFCs.

Table C.11.1A.4: β values for transmitter characteristics tests with
HS-DPCCH and E-DCH

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Sub-test</td>
<td>β<sub>c</sub> <em>(Note7)</em></td>
<td>β<sub>d</sub></td>
<td><p>β<sub>d</sub></p>
<p><em>(SF)</em></p></td>
<td>β<sub>c</sub>/β<sub>d</sub></td>
<td><p>β<sub>HS</sub></p>
<p><em>(Note1)</em></p></td>
<td>β<sub>ec</sub></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub></p>
<p><em>(Note 4)<br />
(Note 5)</em></p></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub></p>
<p><em>(SF)</em></p></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub></p>
<p><em>(Codes)</em></p></td>
<td><p>CM</p>
<p><em>(dB)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 2)</em></p></td>
<td><p>MPR</p>
<p><em>(dB)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 2)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 6)</em></p></td>
<td><p><em>AG</em></p>
<p><em>Index</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 5)</em></p></td>
<td><em>E-TFCI</em></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>1</td>
<td><p>11/15</p>
<p><em>(Note 3)</em></p></td>
<td><p>15/15</p>
<p><em>(Note 3)</em></p></td>
<td>64</td>
<td><p>11/15</p>
<p><em>(Note 3)</em></p></td>
<td>22/15</td>
<td>209/225</td>
<td>1309/225</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1.0</td>
<td>0.0</td>
<td>20</td>
<td>75</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>2</td>
<td>6/15</td>
<td>15/15</td>
<td>64</td>
<td>6/15</td>
<td>12/15</td>
<td>12/15</td>
<td>94/75</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>3.0</td>
<td>2.0</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>67</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>3</td>
<td>15/15</td>
<td>9/15</td>
<td>64</td>
<td>15/9</td>
<td>30/15</td>
<td>30/15</td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub>1: 47/15</p>
<p>β<sub>ed</sub>2: 47/15</p></td>
<td><p>4</p>
<p>4</p></td>
<td>2</td>
<td>2.0</td>
<td>1.0</td>
<td>15</td>
<td>92</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>4</td>
<td>2/15</td>
<td>15/15</td>
<td>64</td>
<td>2/15</td>
<td>4/15</td>
<td>2/15</td>
<td>56/75</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>3.0</td>
<td>2.0</td>
<td>17</td>
<td>71</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>5</td>
<td>15/15</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>5/15</td>
<td>5/15</td>
<td>47/15</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1.0</td>
<td>0.0</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>67</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Note 1: For sub-test 1 to 4, ∆<sub>ACK</sub>, ∆<sub>NACK</sub> and ∆<sub>CQI</sub> = 30/15 with <img src="media/image4.wmf" style="width:0.25in;height:0.25in" />= 30/15 *<img src="media/image5.wmf" style="width:0.20833in;height:0.25in" />. For sub-test 5, ∆<sub>ACK</sub>, ∆<sub>NACK</sub> and ∆<sub>CQI</sub> = 5/15 with <img src="media/image4.wmf" style="width:0.25in;height:0.25in" />= 5/15 *<img src="media/image5.wmf" style="width:0.20833in;height:0.25in" />.</p>
<p>Note 2: CM = 1 for β<sub>c</sub>/β<sub>d</sub> =12/15, β<sub>hs</sub>/β<sub>c</sub>=24/15. For all other combinations of DPDCH, DPCCH, HS- DPCCH, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH the MPR is based on the relative CM difference.</p>
<p>Note 3: For subtest 1 the β<sub>c</sub>/β<sub>d</sub> ratio of 11/15 for the TFC during the measurement period (TF1, TF0) is achieved by setting the signalled gain factors for the reference TFC (TF1, TF1) to β<sub>c</sub> = 10/15 and β<sub>d</sub> = 15/15.</p>
<p>Note 4: In case of testing by UE using E-DPDCH Physical Layer category 1, Sub-test 3 is omitted according to TS25.306 Table 5.1g.</p>
<p>Note 5: β<sub>ed</sub> can not be set directly; it is set by Absolute Grant Value.</p>
<p>Note 6: For subtests 2, 3 and 4, UE may perform E-DPDCH power scaling at max power which could results in slightly smaller MPR values.</p>
<p>Note 7: For CLTD Mode 1 test cases power is equally distributed between both the antenna ports.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Table C.11.1A.5: β values for transmitter characteristics tests with
HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with 16QAM

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Sub-test</td>
<td><p>β<sub>c</sub></p>
<p><em>(Note3)</em></p></td>
<td>β<sub>d</sub></td>
<td><p>β<sub>HS</sub></p>
<p><em>(Note1)</em></p></td>
<td>β<sub>ec</sub></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub></p>
<p><em>(2xSF2)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 4)</em></p></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub></p>
<p><em>(2xSF4)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 4)</em></p></td>
<td><p>CM</p>
<p><em>(dB)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 2)</em></p></td>
<td><p>MPR</p>
<p><em>(dB)</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 2)</em></p></td>
<td><p><em>AG</em></p>
<p><em>Index</em></p>
<p><em>(Note 4)</em></p></td>
<td><em>E-TFCI (Note 5)</em></td>
<td><em>E-TFCI (boost)</em></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>30/15</td>
<td>30/15</td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub>1: 30/15</p>
<p>β<sub>ed</sub>2: 30/15</p></td>
<td><p>β<sub>ed</sub>3: 24/15</p>
<p>β<sub>ed</sub>4: 24/15</p></td>
<td>3.5</td>
<td>2.5</td>
<td>14</td>
<td>105</td>
<td>105</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Note 1: ∆<sub>ACK</sub>, ∆<sub>NACK</sub> and ∆<sub>CQI</sub> = 30/15 with <img src="media/image4.wmf" style="width:0.25in;height:0.25in" />= 30/15 * <img src="media/image5.wmf" style="width:0.20833in;height:0.25in" />.</p>
<p>Note 2: CM = 3.5 and the MPR is based on the relative CM difference, MPR = MAX(CM-1,0).</p>
<p>Note 3: DPDCH is not configured, therefore the β<sub>c</sub> is set to 1 and β<sub>d</sub> = 0 by default.</p>
<p>Note 4: β<sub>ed</sub> can not be set directly; it is set by Absolute Grant Value.</p>
<p>Note 5: All the sub-tests require the UE to transmit 2SF2+2SF4 16QAM EDCH and they apply for UE using E-DPDCH category 7. E-DCH TTI is set to 2ms TTI and E-DCH table index = 2. To support these E-DCH configurations DPDCH is not allocated. The UE is signalled to use the extrapolation algorithm.</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

C.11.2 DL reference measurement channel for E-DCH tests
-------------------------------------------------------

On downlink DCH the reference measurement channel according to section
C.3.1 is used. On downlink HS-DSCH the fixed reference channel H-Set 1
according to section C.8.1.1 is used.

C.11.3 RLC SDU size for E-DCH tests
-----------------------------------

Table C.11.3.1 defines the number of DL RLC SDUs per TTI and the sizes
of the DL and UL RLC SDUs to achieve the required asymmetrical DL/UL
data rates for the E-DCH test cases.

Table C.11.3.1: UL RLC SDU size for E-DCH tests

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| TC       | TS       | In       | DL SDU   | Number   | UL RLC   |
| Clause   | 34.121-1 | ter-TTI\ | size     | of DL    | SDU Size |
|          | E-DCH    | (Note 1) |          | SDUs per |          |
|          | Test     |          | \[bits\] | DL       | \[bits\] |
|          | Cases    |          |          | tran     |          |
|          |          |          | (Note 2) | smission | (Note 1) |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          | (Note 1) |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2B     | Maximum  | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | For      |
|          | Output   | 1)       |          |          | sub-test |
|          | Power    |          |          |          | 1-4:     |
|          | with     |          |          |          |          |
|          | HS-DPCCH |          |          |          | 2936     |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          | For      |
|          |          |          |          |          | sub-test |
|          |          |          |          |          | 5:       |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          | 11744    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2D     | UE       | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 2936     |
|          | Relative | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | Code     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Domain   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Accuracy |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | HS-DPCCH |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2E     | UE       | 3 (H-Set | 312      | 9        | 8808     |
|          | Relative | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | Code     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Domain   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Accuracy |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | HS-DPCCH |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | with     |          |          |          |          |
|          | 16QAM    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9B     | Spectrum | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | For      |
|          | Emission | 1)       |          |          | sub-test |
|          | Mask     |          |          |          | 1-4:     |
|          | with     |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          | 2936     |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          | For      |
|          |          |          |          |          | sub-test |
|          |          |          |          |          | 5:       |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          | 11744    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10B    | ACLR     | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | For      |
|          | with     | 1)       |          |          | sub-test |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          | 1-4:     |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          | 2936     |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          | For      |
|          |          |          |          |          | sub-test |
|          |          |          |          |          | 5:       |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          | 11744    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5        | EVM and  | 3 (H-Set | 312      | 9        | 8808     |
| .13.1AAA | IQ       | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | origin   |          |          |          |          |
|          | offset   |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | HS-DPCCH |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | with     |          |          |          |          |
|          | 16QAM    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.2B  | Relative | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 2936     |
|          | Code     | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | Domain   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Error    |          |          |          |          |
|          | with     |          |          |          |          |
|          | HS-DPCCH |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.2C  | Relative | 3 (H-Set | 312      | 9        | 8808     |
|          | Code     | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | Domain   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Error    |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | HS-DPCCH |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | with     |          |          |          |          |
|          | 16QAM    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 8.4.4.1  | 10 ms    | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 11744    |
|          | TTI      | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-TFC    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Res      |          |          |          |          |
|          | triction |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 8.4.4.2  | 2ms TTI  | 3 (H-Set | 968      | 3        | 11744    |
|          | E-DCH    | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | E-TFC    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Res      |          |          |          |          |
|          | triction |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 8.7.9    | UE       | 3 (H-Set | \-       | \-       | No E-DCH |
|          | Tran     | 1)       |          |          | payload  |
|          | smission |          |          |          | data     |
|          | Power    |          |          |          | tra      |
|          | Headroom |          |          |          | nsmitted |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10.2.1.1 | D        | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 2936     |
|          | etection | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | of       |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-HICH   |          |          |          |          |
|          | -Single  |          |          |          |          |
|          | Link     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Per      |          |          |          |          |
|          | formance |          |          |          |          |
|          | (10ms)   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10.2.1.2 | D        | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 5872     |
|          | etection | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | of       |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-HICH   |          |          |          |          |
|          | -Single  |          |          |          |          |
|          | Link     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Per      |          |          |          |          |
|          | formance |          |          |          |          |
|          | (2ms)    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10       | D        | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 11744    |
| .2.2.1.1 | etection | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | In       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ter-Cell |          |          |          |          |
|          | Handover |          |          |          |          |
|          | con      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ditions- |          |          |          |          |
|          | RLS not  |          |          |          |          |
|          | co       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ntaining |          |          |          |          |
|          | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | Serving  |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | cell     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (10ms)   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10       | D        | 3 (H-Set | 968      | 3        | 5872     |
| .2.2.1.2 | etection | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | In       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ter-Cell |          |          |          |          |
|          | Handover |          |          |          |          |
|          | con      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ditions- |          |          |          |          |
|          | RLS not  |          |          |          |          |
|          | co       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ntaining |          |          |          |          |
|          | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | Serving  |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | cell     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (2ms)    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10       | D        | 3 (H-Set | 968      | 3        | 5872     |
| .2.2.2.1 | etection | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | In       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ter-Cell |          |          |          |          |
|          | Handover |          |          |          |          |
|          | con      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ditions- |          |          |          |          |
|          | RLS      |          |          |          |          |
|          | co       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ntaining |          |          |          |          |
|          | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | Serving  |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | cell     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (10ms)   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10       | D        | 3 (H-Set | 968      | 3        | 9784     |
| .2.2.2.2 | etection | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | In       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ter-Cell |          |          |          |          |
|          | Handover |          |          |          |          |
|          | con      |          |          |          |          |
|          | ditions- |          |          |          |          |
|          | RLS      |          |          |          |          |
|          | co       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ntaining |          |          |          |          |
|          | the      |          |          |          |          |
|          | Serving  |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | cell     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (2ms)    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10.3.1.1 | D        | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 2936     |
|          | etection | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | of       |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-RGCH - |          |          |          |          |
|          | Single   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Link     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Per      |          |          |          |          |
|          | formance |          |          |          |          |
|          | (10ms)   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10.3.1.2 | D        | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 5872     |
|          | etection | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | of       |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-RGCH - |          |          |          |          |
|          | Single   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Link     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Per      |          |          |          |          |
|          | formance |          |          |          |          |
|          | (2ms)    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10.3.2   | D        | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 11744    |
|          | etection | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | of       |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-RGCH - |          |          |          |          |
|          | D        |          |          |          |          |
|          | etection |          |          |          |          |
|          | in       |          |          |          |          |
|          | In       |          |          |          |          |
|          | ter-Cell |          |          |          |          |
|          | Handover |          |          |          |          |
|          | co       |          |          |          |          |
|          | nditions |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 10.4.1   | Demo     | 3 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 8808     |
|          | dulation | 1)       |          |          |          |
|          | of       |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-AGCH ( |          |          |          |          |
|          | Single   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Link     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Perf     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ormance) |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| The      |          |          |          |          |          |
| achieved |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL rate  |          |          |          |          |          |
| will     |          |          |          |          |          |
| depend   |          |          |          |          |          |
| on the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| number   |          |          |          |          |          |
| of DL    |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDUs     |          |          |          |          |          |
| sent at  |          |          |          |          |          |
| every    |          |          |          |          |          |
| i        |          |          |          |          |          |
| nter-TTI |          |          |          |          |          |
| i        |          |          |          |          |          |
| nterval. |          |          |          |          |          |
| For each |          |          |          |          |          |
| received |          |          |          |          |          |
| DL RLC   |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDU one  |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL RLC   |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDU of   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL RLC   |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDU size |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| tra      |          |          |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          |          |          |          |          |
| in UL.   |          |          |          |          |          |
| G        |          |          |          |          |          |
| enerated |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL bit   |          |          |          |          |          |
| rate by  |          |          |          |          |          |
| the UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| loop     |          |          |          |          |          |
| function |          |          |          |          |          |
| = Number |          |          |          |          |          |
| of DL    |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDUs per |          |          |          |          |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| nter-TTI |          |          |          |          |          |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |
| eception |          |          |          |          |          |
| \* UL    |          |          |          |          |          |
| RLC SDU  |          |          |          |          |          |
| size /   |          |          |          |          |          |
| DL TTI   |          |          |          |          |          |
| \*       |          |          |          |          |          |
| In       |          |          |          |          |          |
| ter-TTI. |          |          |          |          |          |
| The UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| loop     |          |          |          |          |          |
| function |          |          |          |          |          |
| bit rate |          |          |          |          |          |
| shall be |          |          |          |          |          |
| equal or |          |          |          |          |          |
| larger   |          |          |          |          |          |
| than the |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL rate  |          |          |          |          |          |
| required |          |          |          |          |          |
| by the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| test to  |          |          |          |          |          |
| avoid    |          |          |          |          |          |
| that Tx  |          |          |          |          |          |
| buffer   |          |          |          |          |          |
| becomes  |          |          |          |          |          |
| empty    |          |          |          |          |          |
| during   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the test |          |          |          |          |          |
| phase.   |          |          |          |          |          |
| The SS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL SDU   |          |          |          |          |          |
| size for |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE test  |          |          |          |          |          |
| loop     |          |          |          |          |          |
| mode 1   |          |          |          |          |          |
| shall be |          |          |          |          |          |
| limited  |          |          |          |          |          |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |
| maximum  |          |          |          |          |          |
| 1520     |          |          |          |          |          |
| octets   |          |          |          |          |          |
| (12160   |          |          |          |          |          |
| bits) to |          |          |          |          |          |
| not      |          |          |          |          |          |
| restrict |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| appli    |          |          |          |          |          |
| cability |          |          |          |          |          |
| of test  |          |          |          |          |          |
| cases to |          |          |          |          |          |
| UEs      |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| optional |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL RLC   |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDU      |          |          |          |          |          |
| sizes    |          |          |          |          |          |
| larger   |          |          |          |          |          |
| than     |          |          |          |          |          |
| 1520     |          |          |          |          |          |
| octets   |          |          |          |          |          |
| (TS      |          |          |          |          |          |
| 34.109   |          |          |          |          |          |
| clause   |          |          |          |          |          |
| 6.2).    |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| The DL   |          |          |          |          |          |
| RLC SDU  |          |          |          |          |          |
| size for |          |          |          |          |          |
| all      |          |          |          |          |          |
| E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |          |
| tests is |          |          |          |          |          |
| set to   |          |          |          |          |          |
| fit into |          |          |          |          |          |
| a        |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ransport |          |          |          |          |          |
| block    |          |          |          |          |          |
| size of  |          |          |          |          |          |
| 3202     |          |          |          |          |          |
| bits     |          |          |          |          |          |
| (the     |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ransport |          |          |          |          |          |
| block    |          |          |          |          |          |
| size     |          |          |          |          |          |
| used for |          |          |          |          |          |
| H-Set    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 1). For  |          |          |          |          |          |
| the case |          |          |          |          |          |
| of one,  |          |          |          |          |          |
| three or |          |          |          |          |          |
| nine DL  |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDUs are |          |          |          |          |          |
| used per |          |          |          |          |          |
| DL       |          |          |          |          |          |
| tran     |          |          |          |          |          |
| smission |          |          |          |          |          |
| then DL  |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDU size |          |          |          |          |          |
| of 2936, |          |          |          |          |          |
| 968 and  |          |          |          |          |          |
| 312 bits |          |          |          |          |          |
| are      |          |          |          |          |          |
| used.    |          |          |          |          |          |
| These DL |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDU      |          |          |          |          |          |
| sizes    |          |          |          |          |          |
| take     |          |          |          |          |          |
| into     |          |          |          |          |          |
| account  |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| required |          |          |          |          |          |
| fixed    |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| flexible |          |          |          |          |          |
| MAC and  |          |          |          |          |          |
| RLC      |          |          |          |          |          |
| header   |          |          |          |          |          |
| size to  |          |          |          |          |          |
| enable   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the SS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |
| con      |          |          |          |          |          |
| catenate |          |          |          |          |          |
| and      |          |          |          |          |          |
| transmit |          |          |          |          |          |
| the DL   |          |          |          |          |          |
| RLC SDUs |          |          |          |          |          |
| in one   |          |          |          |          |          |
| and the  |          |          |          |          |          |
| same     |          |          |          |          |          |
| TTI.     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

C.11A Reference channel parameters for DC-HSUPA tests
=====================================================

This annex specifies the reference channel parameters for DC-HSUPA test
cases.

C.11A.1 UL reference measurement channel for DC-HSUPA tests
-----------------------------------------------------------

On uplink E-DCH the MAC-d flow parameters and the physical channel
parameters according to default Radio Bearer Setup message of section
9.2.1 of TS 34.108 are used. On uplink DCH the reference measurement
channel according to section C.2.6 (BPSK configuration) or C.2.7 (16QAM
configuration) is used. Table C.11A.1.1 and Table C.11.A.1.2 show the
beta values on all uplink channels on both carriers that are used for
transmitter characteristics tests.

Table C.11A.1.1: β values for transmitter characteristics tests for
DC-HSUPA with QPSK

+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| β~c~    | β~d~ | β~HS~   | β~ec~   | β~ed~   | AG      | E-TFCI  |
|         |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Note2) |      | (Note1) | (Note2) | (       | Index   | (Note 2 |
|         |      |         |         | 1xSF16) |         | and 4)  |
|         |      |         |         |         | (Note 2 |         |
|         |      |         |         | (Note2) | and 3)  |         |
+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 15/15   | \-   | 5/15    | 5/15    | 24/15   | 6       | 1       |
+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Note 1: |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| ∆~ACK~, |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| ∆~NACK~ |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| ∆~CQI~  |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| = 5/15  |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| !       |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| [](medi |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| a/image |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| 4.wmf){ |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| width=" |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0.25in" |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| heigh   |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| t="0.25 |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| in"}=5/ |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| 15 \*![ |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| ](media |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| /image5 |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| .wmf){w |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| idth="0 |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| .208333 |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3333333 |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3334in" |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| hei     |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| ght="0. |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| 25in"}. |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| This    |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| channel |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| present |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| only in |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| primary |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| arrier. |      |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 2: |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| This    |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| value   |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| is used |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| both    |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| primary |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| se      |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| condary |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| ca      |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| rriers. |      |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 3: |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| β~ed~   |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| can not |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| be set  |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| di      |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| rectly; |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| it is   |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| set by  |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| A       |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| bsolute |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| Grant   |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| Value.  |      |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 4: |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2ms TTI |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| Tr      |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| ansport |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| Block   |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| Size    |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| Table 0 |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |      |         |         |         |         |         |
| used.   |      |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Table C.11A.1.2: β values for transmitter characteristics tests for
DC-HSUPA with 16QAM

+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| β~c~  | β~d~ | β~HS~ | β~ec~ | β~ed~ | β~ed~ | AG    | E     | E     |
|       |      |       |       |       |       |       | -TFCI | -TFCI |
| (N    |      | (N    | (N    | (2    | (2    | Index |       |       |
| ote2) |      | ote1) | ote2) | xSF2) | xSF4) |       | (Note | (B    |
|       |      |       |       |       |       | (Note | 2 and | oost) |
|       |      |       |       | (Note | (Note | 2 and | 4)    |       |
|       |      |       |       | 2)    | 2)    | 3)    |       |       |
+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 15/15 | \-   | 19/15 | 38/15 | β~    | β~    | 24    | 68    | 67    |
|       |      |       |       | ed~1: | ed~3: |       |       |       |
|       |      |       |       | 1     | 95/15 |       |       |       |
|       |      |       |       | 34/15 |       |       |       |       |
|       |      |       |       |       | β~    |       |       |       |
|       |      |       |       | β~    | ed~4: |       |       |       |
|       |      |       |       | ed~2: | 95/15 |       |       |       |
|       |      |       |       | 1     |       |       |       |       |
|       |      |       |       | 34/15 |       |       |       |       |
+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Note  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1:    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆~    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ACK~, |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆~    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| NACK~ |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ∆     |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ~CQI~ |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =     |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 19/15 |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| with  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| !     |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage4 |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 25in" |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h     |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| eight |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ="0.2 |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5in"} |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| =19/1 |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 5 \*! |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| [](me |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dia/i |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mage5 |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| .wmf) |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| {widt |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| h="0. |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 20833 |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 33333 |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 34in" |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| he    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ight= |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| "0.25 |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in"}. |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| This  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ch    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| annel |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pr    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| esent |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| only  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pr    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| imary |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| car   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rier. |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2:    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| This  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| value |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| is    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| used  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| for   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| both  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| pr    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| imary |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| and   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| seco  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ndary |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| carr  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| iers. |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3:    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| β~ed~ |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| can   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| not   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| be    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| set   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dire  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ctly; |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| it is |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| set   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| by    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Abs   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| olute |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Grant |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| V     |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| alue. |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Note  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 4:    |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2ms   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| TTI   |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| E-DCH |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Tran  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sport |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Block |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Size  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Table |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 3 is  |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| used. |      |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

C.11A.2 DL reference measurement channel for DC-HSUPA tests
-----------------------------------------------------------

On downlink DCH the reference measurement channel according to section
C.3.1 is used. On downlink HS-DSCH the fixed reference channel H-Set 3A
with QPSK according to section C.8.1.1 is used.

C.11A.3 RLC SDU size for DC-HSUPA tests
---------------------------------------

Table C.11A.3.1 defines the number of DL RLC SDUs per TTI and the sizes
of the DL and UL RLC SDUs to achieve the required asymmetrical DL/UL
data rates for the E-DCH test cases.

Table C.11A.3.1: UL RLC SDU size for E-DCH tests

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| TC       | TS       | In       | DL SDU   | Number   | UL RLC   |
| Clause   | 34.121-1 | ter-TTI\ | size     | of DL    | SDU Size |
|          | E-DCH    | (Note 1) |          | SDUs per |          |
|          | Test     |          | \[bits\] | DL       | \[bits\] |
|          | Cases    |          |          | tran     |          |
|          |          |          | (Note 2) | smission | (Note 1) |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          | (Note 1) |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2BA    | Maximum  | 1 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | Output   | 3A )     |          |          | (BPSK)   |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          | 8406     |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          | (16QAM)  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2DA    | UE       | 1 (H-Set | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | Relative | 3A )     |          |          |          |
|          | Code     |          |          |          |          |
|          | Domain   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Accuracy |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
|          | with     |          |          |          |          |
|          | QPSK     |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.3A     | F        | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | requency | 3A)      |          |          |          |
|          | Error    |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.1A   | Open     | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | Loop     | 3A)      |          |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Control  |          |          |          |          |
|          | in the   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Uplink   |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.2A   | Inner    | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | Loop     | 3A)      |          |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | Control  |          |          |          |          |
|          | in the   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Uplink   |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.8A     | Occupied | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | B        | 3A)      |          |          |          |
|          | andwidth |          |          |          |          |
|          | (OBW)    |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9C     | Ad       | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | ditional | 3A)      |          |          | (BPSK)   |
|          | Spectrum |          |          |          |          |
|          | Emission |          |          |          | 8406     |
|          | Mask for |          |          |          | (16QAM)  |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10C    | Adjacent | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | Channel  | 3A)      |          |          | (BPSK)   |
|          | Leakage  |          |          |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          | 8406     |
|          | Ratio    |          |          |          | (16QAM)  |
|          | (ACLR)   |          |          |          |          |
|          | with     |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.11A    | Spurious | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | E        | 3A)      |          |          |          |
|          | missions |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.12A    | Transmit | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | Intermo  | 3A)      |          |          |          |
|          | dulation |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.2BA | Relative | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | Code     | 3A)      |          |          |          |
|          | Domain   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Error    |          |          |          |          |
|          | with     |          |          |          |          |
|          | HS-DPCCH |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.2CA | Relative | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 8406     |
|          | Code     | 3A)      |          |          |          |
|          | Domain   |          |          |          |          |
|          | Error    |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | HS-DPCCH |          |          |          |          |
|          | and      |          |          |          |          |
|          | E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |
|          | with     |          |          |          |          |
|          | 16QAM    |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.5   | In-band  | 1 (H-SET | 2936     | 1        | 72       |
|          | emission | 3A)      |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| The      |          |          |          |          |          |
| achieved |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL rate  |          |          |          |          |          |
| will     |          |          |          |          |          |
| depend   |          |          |          |          |          |
| on the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| number   |          |          |          |          |          |
| of DL    |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDUs     |          |          |          |          |          |
| sent at  |          |          |          |          |          |
| every    |          |          |          |          |          |
| i        |          |          |          |          |          |
| nter-TTI |          |          |          |          |          |
| i        |          |          |          |          |          |
| nterval. |          |          |          |          |          |
| For each |          |          |          |          |          |
| received |          |          |          |          |          |
| DL RLC   |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDU one  |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL RLC   |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDU of   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL RLC   |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDU size |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| tra      |          |          |          |          |          |
| nsmitted |          |          |          |          |          |
| in UL.   |          |          |          |          |          |
| G        |          |          |          |          |          |
| enerated |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL bit   |          |          |          |          |          |
| rate by  |          |          |          |          |          |
| the UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| loop     |          |          |          |          |          |
| function |          |          |          |          |          |
| = Number |          |          |          |          |          |
| of DL    |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDUs per |          |          |          |          |          |
| I        |          |          |          |          |          |
| nter-TTI |          |          |          |          |          |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |
| eception |          |          |          |          |          |
| \* UL    |          |          |          |          |          |
| RLC SDU  |          |          |          |          |          |
| size /   |          |          |          |          |          |
| DL TTI   |          |          |          |          |          |
| \*       |          |          |          |          |          |
| In       |          |          |          |          |          |
| ter-TTI. |          |          |          |          |          |
| The UE   |          |          |          |          |          |
| test     |          |          |          |          |          |
| loop     |          |          |          |          |          |
| function |          |          |          |          |          |
| bit rate |          |          |          |          |          |
| shall be |          |          |          |          |          |
| equal or |          |          |          |          |          |
| larger   |          |          |          |          |          |
| than the |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL rate  |          |          |          |          |          |
| required |          |          |          |          |          |
| by the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| test to  |          |          |          |          |          |
| avoid    |          |          |          |          |          |
| that Tx  |          |          |          |          |          |
| buffer   |          |          |          |          |          |
| becomes  |          |          |          |          |          |
| empty    |          |          |          |          |          |
| during   |          |          |          |          |          |
| the test |          |          |          |          |          |
| phase.   |          |          |          |          |          |
| The SS   |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| nfigured |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL SDU   |          |          |          |          |          |
| size for |          |          |          |          |          |
| UE test  |          |          |          |          |          |
| loop     |          |          |          |          |          |
| mode 1   |          |          |          |          |          |
| shall be |          |          |          |          |          |
| limited  |          |          |          |          |          |
| to       |          |          |          |          |          |
| maximum  |          |          |          |          |          |
| 1520     |          |          |          |          |          |
| octets   |          |          |          |          |          |
| (12160   |          |          |          |          |          |
| bits) to |          |          |          |          |          |
| not      |          |          |          |          |          |
| restrict |          |          |          |          |          |
| the      |          |          |          |          |          |
| appli    |          |          |          |          |          |
| cability |          |          |          |          |          |
| of test  |          |          |          |          |          |
| cases to |          |          |          |          |          |
| UEs      |          |          |          |          |          |
| su       |          |          |          |          |          |
| pporting |          |          |          |          |          |
| optional |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL RLC   |          |          |          |          |          |
| SDU      |          |          |          |          |          |
| sizes    |          |          |          |          |          |
| larger   |          |          |          |          |          |
| than     |          |          |          |          |          |
| 1520     |          |          |          |          |          |
| octets   |          |          |          |          |          |
| (TS      |          |          |          |          |          |
| 34.109   |          |          |          |          |          |
| clause   |          |          |          |          |          |
| 6.2).    |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| The DL   |          |          |          |          |          |
| RLC SDU  |          |          |          |          |          |
| size for |          |          |          |          |          |
| all      |          |          |          |          |          |
| E-DCH    |          |          |          |          |          |
| tests is |          |          |          |          |          |
| set to   |          |          |          |          |          |
| fit into |          |          |          |          |          |
| a        |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ransport |          |          |          |          |          |
| block    |          |          |          |          |          |
| size of  |          |          |          |          |          |
| 3202     |          |          |          |          |          |
| bits     |          |          |          |          |          |
| (the     |          |          |          |          |          |
| t        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ransport |          |          |          |          |          |
| block    |          |          |          |          |          |
| size     |          |          |          |          |          |
| used for |          |          |          |          |          |
| H-Set    |          |          |          |          |          |
| 3A).     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

C.12 DL reference parameters for MBMS tests
===========================================

This annex specifies the reference channel parameters for MBMS test
cases.

C.12.1 MTCH
-----------

The parameters for the MTCH demodulation tests are specified in Table
C.12.1.1 and Table C.12.1.2.

Table C.12.1.1: Physical channel parameters for S-CCPCH

  --------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------- -------
  Parameter                                                       Unit   Level   Level
  User Data Rate                                                  kpbs   256     128
  Channel bit rate                                                kbps   960     480
  Channel symbol rate                                             ksps   480     240
  Slot Format \#i                                                 \-     14      12
  TFCI                                                            \-     ON      ON
  Power offsets of TFCI and Pilot fields relative to data field   dB     0       0
  --------------------------------------------------------------- ------ ------- -------

Table C.12.1.2: Transport channel parameters for S-CCPCH

  --------------------------------- ---------- ----------- ------------
  Parameter                         MTCH                   

  User Data Rate                    256 kbps   128 kbps\   128 kbps,\
                                               40 ms TTI   80 ms TTI

  Transport Channel Number          1          1           1

  Transport Block Size              2536       2536        2536

  Transport Block Set Size          10144      5072        10144

  Nr of transport blocks/TTI        4          2           4

  RLC SDU block size                10080      5024        10080

  Transmission Time Interval        40 ms      40 ms       80 ms

  Type of Error Protection          Turbo      Turbo       Turbo

  Rate Matching attribute           256        256         256

  Size of CRC                       16         16          16

  Position of TrCH in radio frame   Flexible   Flexible    Flexible
  --------------------------------- ---------- ----------- ------------

C.12.2 Combined MTCH demodulation and cell identification 
---------------------------------------------------------

The parameters for combined MTCH demodulation and cell identification
test are defined in Table C.12.2.1.

Table C.12.2.1: Cell reselection parameters

  ----------------------------------------------------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Parameter                                             Unit      Value

  Serving cell in the initial condition                           Cell1

  Neighbour cells                                                 32 intra-frequency neighbour cells are indicated including Cell2 and Cell3

  Cell\_selection\_and\_reselection\_quality\_measure             CPICH E~c~/N~0~

  Qqualmin                                              dB        -20

  Qrxlevmin                                             dBm       -115

  UE\_TXPWR\_MAX\_\                                     dB        21
  RACH                                                            

  Qhyst2                                                dB        20 dB

  Treselection                                          seconds   4

  Sintrasearch                                          dB        not sent

  IE \"FACH Measurement occasion info\"                           not sent
  ----------------------------------------------------- --------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

######## Annex D (normative): Propagation Conditions

D.1 General
===========

D.1.1 Definition of Additive White Gaussian Noise (AWGN) Interferer
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The minimum bandwidth of the AWGN interferer shall be 1,5 times chip
rate of the radio access mode (e.g. 5,76 MHz for a chip rate of 3,84
Mcps). The flatness across this minimum bandwidth shall be less than
±0,5 dB and the peak to average ratio at a probability of 0,001 % shall
exceed 10 dB.

For DC-HSDPA tests the minimum bandwidth of the AWGN interferer shall be
11.52 MHz for a chip rate of 3,84 Mcps. The flatness across this minimum
bandwidth shall be less than ±1,0 dB and the peak to average ratio at a
probability of 0,001 % shall exceed 10 dB.

D.2 Propagation Conditions
==========================

D.2.1 Static propagation condition
----------------------------------

The propagation for the static performance measurement is an Additive
White Gaussian Noise (AWGN) environment. No fading and multi-paths exist
for this propagation model.

D.2.2 Multi-path fading propagation conditions
----------------------------------------------

Table D.2.2.1 shows propagation conditions that are used for the
performance measurements in multi-path fading environment. All taps have
classical Doppler spectrum.

Table D.2.2.1: Propagation conditions for multi-path fading environments

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Case 1</td>
<td>Case 2</td>
<td>Case 3</td>
<td>Case 4</td>
<td>Case 5 (Note 1)</td>
<td>Case 6</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Speed for Band I, II, III, IV, IX, X and XXV:<br />
3 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band I, II, III, IV, IX, X and XXV:<br />
3 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band I, II, III, IV, IX, X and XXV:<br />
120 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band I, II, III, IV, IX, X and XXV:<br />
3 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band I, II, III, IV, IX, X and XXV:<br />
50 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band I, II, III, IV, IX, X and XXV:<br />
250 km/h</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Speed for Band V, VI, VIII, XIX, XX and XXVI:<br />
7 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band V, VI,VIII, XIX, XX and XXVI:<br />
7 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band V, VI,VIII, XIX, XX and XXVI:<br />
282 km/h (Note 2)</td>
<td>Speed for Band V, VI,VIII, XIX, XX and XXVI:<br />
7 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band V, VI, VIII, XIX, XX and XXVI:<br />
118 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band V, VI,VIII, XIX, XX and XXVI:<br />
583 km/h (Note 2)</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Speed for Band VII:<br />
2.3 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band VII:<br />
2.3 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band VII:<br />
92 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band VII:<br />
2.3 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band VII:<br />
38 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band VII:<br />
192 km/h</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Speed for Band XI, XXI:<br />
4.1 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band<br />
XI, XXI:<br />
4.1 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band XI, XXI:<br />
166 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band XI, XXI:<br />
4.1 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band XI, XXI:<br />
69 km/h</td>
<td>Speed for Band XI, XXI:<br />
345 km/h (Note 2)</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Speed for Band XII, XIII and XIV:</p>
<p>8 km/h</p></td>
<td><p>Speed for Band XII, XIII and XIV:</p>
<p>8 km/h</p></td>
<td><p>Speed for Band XII, XIII and XIV:</p>
<p>320 km/h</p></td>
<td><p>Speed for Band XII, XIII and XIV:</p>
<p>8 km/h</p></td>
<td><p>Speed for Band XII, XIII and XIV:</p>
<p>133 km/h</p></td>
<td><p>Speed for Band XII, XIII and XIV:</p>
<p>668 km/h</p></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Relative Delay [ns]</td>
<td>Relative mean Power [dB]</td>
<td>Relative Delay [ns]</td>
<td>Relative mean Power [dB]</td>
<td>Relative Delay [ns]</td>
<td>Relative mean Power [dB]</td>
<td>Relative Delay [ns]</td>
<td>Relative mean Power [dB]</td>
<td>Relative Delay [ns]</td>
<td>Relative mean Power [dB]</td>
<td>Relative Delay [ns]</td>
<td>Relative mean Power [dB]</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>976</td>
<td>-10</td>
<td>976</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>260</td>
<td>-3</td>
<td>976</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>976</td>
<td>-10</td>
<td>260</td>
<td>-3</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>20000</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>521</td>
<td>-6</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>521</td>
<td>-6</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>781</td>
<td>-9</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>781</td>
<td>-9</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

NOTE 1: Case 5 is only used in Requirements for support of RRM.

NOTE 2: Speed above 250km/h is applicable to demodulation performance
requirements only.

Table D.2.2.1A shows propagation conditions that are used for HSDPA
performance measurements in multi-path fading environment. For HSDPA and
DCH enhanced performance requirements, the fading of the signals and the
AWGN signals provided in each receiver antenna port shall be
independent. For DC-HSDPA requirements, the fading of the signals for
each cell shall be independent.

Table D.2.2.1A: Propagation Conditions for multi-path fading
environments for HSDPA

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| ITU   | ITU   | ITU   | ITU   |       |       |       |       |
| Pedes | Pedes | vehi  | vehi  |       |       |       |       |
| trian | trian | cular | cular |       |       |       |       |
| A     | B     | A     | A     |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed |       |       |       |       |
| 3km/h | 3km/h | 3     | 12    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0km/h | 0km/h |       |       |       |       |
| (PA3) | (PB3) |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | (     | (V    |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | VA30) | A120) |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed |       |       |       |       |
| for   | for   | for   | for   |       |       |       |       |
| Band  | Band  | Band  | Band  |       |       |       |       |
| I,    | I,    | I,    | I,    |       |       |       |       |
| II,   | II,   | II,   | II,   |       |       |       |       |
| III,  | III,  | III,  | III,  |       |       |       |       |
| IV,   | IV,   | IV,   | IV,   |       |       |       |       |
| IX, X | IX, X | IX, X | IX, X |       |       |       |       |
| and   | and   | and   | and   |       |       |       |       |
| XXV:\ | XXV:\ | XXV:\ | XXV:\ |       |       |       |       |
| 3     | 3     | 30    | 120   |       |       |       |       |
| km/h  | km/h  | km/h  | km/h  |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed |       |       |       |       |
| for   | for   | for   | for   |       |       |       |       |
| Band  | Band  | Band  | Band  |       |       |       |       |
| V,    | V,    | V,    | V,    |       |       |       |       |
| VI,   | VI,   | VI,   | VI,   |       |       |       |       |
| VIII, | VIII, | VIII, | VIII, |       |       |       |       |
| XIX,  | XIX,  | XIX,  | XIX,  |       |       |       |       |
| XX    | XX    | XX    | XX    |       |       |       |       |
| and   | and   | and   | and   |       |       |       |       |
| X     | X     | X     | X     |       |       |       |       |
| XVI:\ | XVI:\ | XVI:\ | XVI:\ |       |       |       |       |
| 7     | 7     | 71    | 282   |       |       |       |       |
| km/h  | km/h  | km/h  | km/h  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed |       |       |       |       |
| for   | for   | for   | for   |       |       |       |       |
| Band  | Band  | Band  | Band  |       |       |       |       |
| VII:\ | VII:\ | VII:\ | VII:\ |       |       |       |       |
| 2.3   | 2.3   | 23    | 92    |       |       |       |       |
| km/h  | km/h  | km/h  | km/h  |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed |       |       |       |       |
| for   | for   | for   | for   |       |       |       |       |
| Band  | Band  | Band  | Band  |       |       |       |       |
| XI,   | XI,   | XI,   | XI,   |       |       |       |       |
| XXI:\ | XXI:\ | XXI:\ | XXI:\ |       |       |       |       |
| 4.1   | 4.1   | 41    | 166   |       |       |       |       |
| km/h  | km/h  | km/h  | km/h  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | (Note |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1)    |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed |       |       |       |       |
| for   | for   | for   | for   |       |       |       |       |
| Band  | Band  | Band  | Band  |       |       |       |       |
| XII,  | XII,  | XII,  | XII,  |       |       |       |       |
| XIII  | XIII  | XIII  | XIII  |       |       |       |       |
| and   | and   | and   | and   |       |       |       |       |
| XIV:  | XIV:  | XIV:  | XIV:  |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 8     | 8     | 80    | 320   |       |       |       |       |
| km/h  | km/h  | km/h  | km/h  |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Rel   | Rel   | Rel   | Rel   | Rel   | Rel   | Rel   | Rel   |
| ative | ative | ative | ative | ative | ative | ative | ative |
| Delay | Mean  | Delay | Mean  | Delay | Mean  | Delay | Mean  |
|       | Power |       | Power |       | Power | \     | Power |
| \     | \     | \     | \     | \     | \     | [ns\] | \     |
| [ns\] | [dB\] | [ns\] | [dB\] | [ns\] | [dB\] |       | [dB\] |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 110   | -9.7  | 200   | -0.9  | 310   | -1.0  | 310   | -1.0  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 190   | -19.2 | 800   | -4.9  | 710   | -9.0  | 710   | -9.0  |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 410   | -22.8 | 1200  | -8.0  | 1090  | -10.0 | 1090  | -10.0 |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       |       | 2300  | -7.8  | 1730  | -15.0 | 1730  | -15.0 |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
|       | 3700  | -23.9 | 2510  | -20.0 | 2510  | -20.0 |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

NOTE 1: Speed above 120km/h is applicable to demodulation performance
requirements only.

Table D.2.2.1B shows propagation conditions that are used for CQI test
in multi-path fading and HS-SCCH-less demodulation of HS-DSCH. For HSDPA
enhanced performance requirements, the fading of the signals and the
AWGN signals provided in each receiver antenna port shall be
independent. For DC-HSDPA requirements, the fading of the signals for
each cell shall be independent.

Table D.2.2.1B: Propagation Conditions for CQI test in multi-path fading
and HS-SCCH-less demodulation of HS-DSCH

+----------------------------------------+----------------------------+
| Case 8                                 |                            |
|                                        |                            |
| Speed for Band I, II, III, IV, IX, X   |                            |
| and XXV: 30km/h                        |                            |
|                                        |                            |
| Speed for Band V, VI, VIII, XIX, XX    |                            |
| and XXVI: 71km/h                       |                            |
|                                        |                            |
| Speed for Band VII: 23km/h             |                            |
|                                        |                            |
| Speed for Band XI, XXI: 41km/h         |                            |
|                                        |                            |
| Speed for Band XII, XIII and XIV: 80   |                            |
| km/h                                   |                            |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------+
| Relative Delay \[ns\]                  | Relative mean Power \[dB\] |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------+
| 0                                      | 0                          |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------+
| 976                                    | -10                        |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------+

Table D.2.2.1C shows propagation conditions that are used for MBMS
demodulation performance measurements in multi-path fading environment.

Table D.2.2.1C: Propagation Conditions for Multi-Path Fading
Environments for MBMS Performance Requirements, Demodulation of HS-DSCH
H-Set9 and H-Set10, HS-SCCH Type 3 Performance

+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| ITU vehicular A                                |                     |
|                                                |                     |
| Speed 3km/h                                    |                     |
|                                                |                     |
| (VA 3)                                         |                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| Speed for Band I, II, III, IV, IX, X and XXV:\ |                     |
| 3 km/h                                         |                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| Speed for Band V, VI, VIII, XIX, XX and XXVI:\ |                     |
| 7 km/h                                         |                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| Speed for Band VII:\                           |                     |
| 2.3 km/h                                       |                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| Speed for Band XI**, XXI**:\                   |                     |
| 4.1 km/h                                       |                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| Speed for Band XII, XIII and XIV:              |                     |
|                                                |                     |
| 8 km/h                                         |                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| Relative Delay                                 | Relative Mean Power |
|                                                |                     |
| \[ns\]                                         | \[dB\]              |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| 0                                              | 0                   |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| 310                                            | -1.0                |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| 710                                            | -9.0                |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| 1090                                           | -10.0               |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| 1730                                           | -15.0               |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| 2510                                           | -20.0               |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+

D.2.3 Moving propagation conditions
-----------------------------------

The dynamic propagation conditions for the test of the baseband
performance are non fading channel models with two taps. The moving
propagation condition has two taps, one static, Path0, and one moving,
Path1. The time difference between the two paths is according Equation
D.2.3.1. The taps have equal strengths and equal phases.

Figure D.2.3.1: The moving propagation conditions

$\text{Δτ} = B + \frac{A}{2}\left( 1 + \text{sin}\left( \text{Δω} \cdot t \right) \right)$
Equation D.2.3.1

The parameters in the equation are shown in.

  ---- ---------------
  A    5 μs
  B    1 μs
  ∆ω   40 · 10−3 s−1
  ---- ---------------

D.2.4 Birth-Death propagation conditions
----------------------------------------

The dynamic propagation conditions for the test of the baseband
performance is a non fading propagation channel with two taps. The
moving propagation condition has two taps, Path1 and Path2 while
alternate between \'birth\' and \'death\'. The positions the paths
appear are randomly selected with an equal probability rate and are
shown in figure D.2.4.1.

![](media/image7.wmf){width="6.133333333333334in" height="1.55in"}

NOTE1: Two paths, Path1 and Path2 are randomly selected from the group
\[‑5, ‑4, ‑3, ‑2, ‑1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\] μs. The paths have equal
strengths and equal phases.

NOTE 2: After 191 ms, Path1 vanishes and reappears immediately at a new
location randomly selected from the group \[‑5, ‑4, ‑3, ‑2, ‑1, 0, 1, 2,
3, 4, 5\] μs but excludes the point Path2.

NOTE 3: After additional 191 ms, Path2 vanishes and reappears
immediately at a new location randomly selected from the group \[‑5, ‑4,
‑3, ‑2, ‑1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\] μs but excludes the point Path1.

NOTE 4: The sequence in 2) and 3) is repeated.

D.2.4A High speed train conditions
----------------------------------

The high speed train condition for the test of the baseband performance
is a non fading propagation channel with one tap. Doppler shift is given
by

$f_{s}\left( t \right) = f_{d}\text{cos}\theta\left( t \right)$
(D.2.4A.1)

where$f_{s}\left( t \right)$ is the Doppler shift and $f_{d}$ is the
maximum Doppler frequency. The cosine of angle
$\theta\left( t \right)$is given by

$\text{cos}\theta\left( t \right) = \frac{D_{s}/2 - \text{vt}}{\sqrt{D_{\text{min}^{2}} + \left( D_{s}/2 - \text{vt} \right)^{2}}}$,
$0 \leq t \leq D_{s}/v$ (D.2.4A.2)

where $D_{s}/2$ is the initial distance of the train from BS, and
$D_{\text{min}}$ is BS-Railway track distance, both in meters; $v$ is
the velocity of the train in m/s, $t$ is time in seconds. The parameters
in the equation are shown in table D.2.4A.1. Accordingly, Doppler shift
changes to the following figure D.2.4A.1.

Table D.2.4A.1

  ----------- ----------
  Parameter   Value
              300 m
              2 m
              300 km/h
              600 Hz
  ----------- ----------

![](media/image8.wmf){width="5.065972222222222in"
height="3.1465277777777776in"}

Figure D.2.4A.1: Doppler shift trajectory

D.2.5 Conditions for HSDPA enhanced performance requirements type 1 with UE receiver diversity
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fading profiles used in the two or four faders for testing enhanced
performance requirements type 1 with UE receiver diversity shall be
uncorrelated to each other.

The two AWGN signals used for testing enhanced performance requirements
type 1 with UE receiver diversity shall be uncorrelated to each other.

D.2.6 Conditions for HSDPA enhanced performance requirements type 3 with UE receiver diversity
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fading profiles used in the two faders for testing enhanced
performance requirements type 3 with UE receiver diversity shall be
uncorrelated to each other.

The two AWGN signals used for testing enhanced performance requirements
type 3 with UE receiver diversity shall be uncorrelated to each other.

D.2.7 Conditions for open and closed loop diversity performance
---------------------------------------------------------------

The fading profiles used in the two or four faders for testing open and
closed loop diversity performance shall be uncorrelated to each other.

D.2.8 Conditions for MBMS enhanced performance requirements type 1 with UE receiver diversity
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fading profiles used in the six faders for testing enhanced
performance requirements type 1 with UE receiver diversity shall be
uncorrelated to each other.

The two AWGN signals used for testing enhanced performance requirements
type 1 with UE receiver diversity shall be uncorrelated to each other.

D.2.9 MIMO propagation conditions
---------------------------------

MIMO propagation conditions are defined for a 2x2 antenna configuration.
The resulting propagation channel shall be characterized by a complex
2x2 matrix termed

$H = \begin{pmatrix}
h_{\text{11}} & h_{\text{12}} \\
h_{\text{21}} & h_{\text{22}} \\
\end{pmatrix}$.

The channel coefficients of **H** shall be defined as a function of the
possible precoding vectors or matrices. The possible precoding vectors
for MIMO operation according to \[5\] shall be termed

$w^{(1)} = \begin{pmatrix}
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \\
\frac{1 + j}{2} \\
\end{pmatrix},\ w^{(2)} = \begin{pmatrix}
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \\
\frac{1 - j}{2} \\
\end{pmatrix},\ w^{(3)} = \begin{pmatrix}
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \\
\frac{- 1 + j}{2} \\
\end{pmatrix},\ w^{(4)} = \begin{pmatrix}
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \\
\frac{- 1 - j}{2} \\
\end{pmatrix}$ (EQ. D.2.9.1)

Furthermore the following possible precoding matrices shall be defined:

$W^{(1)} = \begin{pmatrix}
w^{(1)} & w^{(4)} \\
\end{pmatrix},\ W^{(2)} = \begin{pmatrix}
w^{(2)} & w^{(3)} \\
\end{pmatrix},\ W^{(3)} = \begin{pmatrix}
w^{(3)} & w^{(2)} \\
\end{pmatrix},\ W^{(4)} = \begin{pmatrix}
w^{(4)} & w^{(1)} \\
\end{pmatrix}$ (EQ. D.2.9.2)

### D.2.9.1 MIMO Single Stream Fading Conditions

For MIMO single stream conditions, the resulting propagation channel
shall be generated using two independent fading processes with classical
Doppler and one randomly picked but fixed precoding vector $w$out of the
set defined in equation EQ. D.2.9.1. The two fading processes shall be
generated according to the parameters in Table D.2.9.1

Table D.2.9.1

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| MIMO Single Stream   |                      |                      |
| Conditions,          |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Speed for Band I,    |                      |                      |
| II, III, IV, IX and  |                      |                      |
| X: 3km/h             |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Speed for Band V,    |                      |                      |
| VI, VIII, XIX, XX    |                      |                      |
| and XXVI: 7.1km/h    |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Speed for Band VII:  |                      |                      |
| 2.3km/h              |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Speed for Band XI,   |                      |                      |
| XXI: 4.1km/h         |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Speed for Band XII,  |                      |                      |
| XIII and XIV: 8 km/h |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Relative Delay       | Relative Mean Power  | (Amplitude, phase)   |
| \[ns\]               | \[dB\]               | symbols              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0                    | 0                    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0                    | 0                    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

NOTE: The amplitude$a_{2}$is not used in tests under MIMO single stream
conditions, only the phase $\phi_{2}$ will be used.

The channel coefficients of the resulting propagation channel under MIMO
single stream conditions shall be given by

The generation of the resulting channel coefficients for MIMO single
stream conditions and the association with the transmitter and receiver
ports are depicted Figure D.2.9.1. Figure D.2.9.1 does not restrict test
system implementation.

Figure D.2.9.1: Test setup under MIMO Single Stream Fading Conditions

### D.2.9.2 MIMO Dual Stream Fading Conditions

For MIMO dual stream conditions, the resulting propagation channel shall
be generated using two independent fading processes with classical
Doppler and one randomly picked but fixed precoding matrix
![](media/image10.wmf){width="0.2222222222222222in"
height="0.19375in"}out of the set defined in equation EQ. D.2.9.2. The
two fading processes shall be generated according to the parameters in
Table D.2.9.2

Table D.2.9.2

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| MIMO Dual Stream     |                      |                      |
| Conditions,          |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Speed for Band I,    |                      |                      |
| II, III, IV, IX, X   |                      |                      |
| and XXV: 3km/h       |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Speed for Band V,    |                      |                      |
| VI, VIII, XIX, XX    |                      |                      |
| and XXVI: 7.1km/h    |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Speed for Band VII:  |                      |                      |
| 2.3km/h              |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Speed for Band XI,   |                      |                      |
| XXI: 4.1km/h         |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| Speed for Band XII,  |                      |                      |
| XIII and XIV: 8 km/h |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Relative Delay       | Relative Mean Power  | (Amplitude, phase)   |
| \[ns\]               | \[dB\]               | symbols              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0                    | 0                    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 0                    | -3                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

The channel coefficients of the resulting propagation channel under MIMO
dual stream conditions shall be given by

The generation of the resulting channel coefficients for MIMO dual
stream conditions and the association with the transmitter and receiver
ports are depicted Figure D.2.9.2. Figure D.2.9.2 does not restrict test
system implementation.

Figure D.2.9.2: Test setup under MIMO Dual Stream Fading Conditions

### D.2.9.3 MIMO Dual Stream Static Orthogonal Conditions

The channel coefficients of the resulting propagation channel under MIMO
dual stream conditions shall be given by

The generation of the resulting channel coefficients for MIMO dual
stream conditions and the association with the transmitter and receiver
ports are depicted Figure D.2.9.3. Figure D.2.9.3 does not restrict test
system implementation.

Figure D.2.9.3: Test setup under MIMO Dual Stream Static Orthogonal
Conditions

######## Annex E (normative): Downlink Physical Channels

E.1 General
===========

This normative annex specifies the downlink physical channels that are
needed for setting a connection and channels that are needed during a
connection. For the definition of OCNS, the power of OCNS shall be
controlled so as to keep the total transmit power spectral density Ior
constant. The Ior shall be measured as the mean power defined in 3.1
Definitions. The mean power shall be kept constant from one slot to the
next.

In test cases where the Ior should be kept constant, it shall be
acceptable to continuously send logical channel DCCH data which is
allowed to be dummy DCCH data, so that it is not necessary to count the
number of power off symbols and calculate OCNS power every symbol or
slot period to keep the Ior constant.

NOTE: The power level specified for each physical channel in this annex
is an average power, as measured during periods when the physical
channel transmission is ON (see \[19\] for definitions), and no DTX
symbols are being transmitted on that physical channel.

E.2 Connection Set-up for non-HSDPA test cases
==============================================

Table E.2.1 describes the downlink Physical Channels that are required
for connection set up.

Table E.2.1: Downlink Physical Channels required for connection set-up

  ------------------
  Physical Channel
  CPICH
  P-CCPCH
  SCH
  S-CCPCH
  PICH
  AICH
  DPCH
  ------------------

E.2.1 Measurement without dedicated connection
----------------------------------------------

Table E.2.2 describes the downlink Physical Channels that are required
for measurement before connection. This is applicable for the
clauses 5.4.1 , 5.5.2 and 5.13.4and 5.5.2.

Table E.2.2: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted without dedicated
connection

  ------------------ -----------------------------
  Physical Channel   Power
  Îor                Test dependent power
  CPICH              CPICH\_Ec / Ior = −3.9 dB
  P-CCPCH            P-CCPCH\_Ec / Ior = −8.3 dB
  SCH                SCH\_Ec / Ior = −8.3 dB
  PICH               PICH\_Ec / Ior = −8.3 dB
  S-CCPCH            S-CCPCH\_Ec / Ior = −5.3 dB
  ------------------ -----------------------------

E.3 During connection for non-HSDPA test cases
==============================================

The following clauses describe the downlink Physical Channels that are
transmitted during a connection i.e., when measurements are done. For
these measurements the offset between DPCH and SCH shall be zero chips
at base station meaning that SCH is overlapping with the first symbols
in DPCH in the beginning of DPCH slot structure.

E.3.1 Measurement of Tx Characteristics
---------------------------------------

Table E.3.1 is applicable for measurements on the Transmitter
Characteristics (clause 5) with the exception of clauses 5.3, 5.4.1,
5.4.4 and 5.4.4A.

NOTE: Applicability to clause 5.7 (Power setting in uplink compressed
mode) is FFS.

Table E.3.1: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during a connection

  ------------------ -------------------------------
  Physical Channel   Power
  Îor                --93 dBm / 3,84MHz
  CPICH              CPICH\_Ec / DPCH\_Ec = 7 dB
  P-CCPCH            P-CCPCH\_Ec / DPCH\_Ec = 5 dB
  SCH                SCH\_Ec / DPCH\_Ec = 5 dB
  PICH               PICH\_Ec / DPCH\_Ec = 2 dB
  DPCH               --103,3 dBm / 3,84MHz
  ------------------ -------------------------------

E.3.2 Measurement of Rx Characteristics
---------------------------------------

Table E.3.2.1 is applicable for measurements on the Receiver
Characteristics (clause 6) including clauses 5.3, excluding clauses 6.3
and 6.8.

Table E.3.2.1: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during a
connection

  ------------------ ------------------------------
  Physical Channel   Power
  CPICH              CPICH\_Ec / DPCH\_Ec = 7 dB
  P-CCPCH            P-CCPCH\_Ec/ DPCH\_Ec = 5 dB
  SCH                SCH\_Ec / DPCH\_Ec = 5 dB
  PICH               PICH\_Ec / DPCH\_Ec = 2 dB
  DPCH               Test dependent power
  ------------------ ------------------------------

Table E.3.2.2 describes the downlink Physical Channels that are required
for the test of Spurious Emissions (clause 6.8). The UE is in the
CELL\_FACH state during the measurement.

Table E.3.2.2: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during the Rx
Spurious Emissions test

  ------------------ ---------------------------------
  Physical Channel   Power
  CPICH              --86dBm / 3,84MHz
  P-CCPCH            P-CCPCH\_Ec/ CPICH\_Ec = -2 dB
  SCH                SCH\_Ec / CPICH\_Ec = -2 dB
  PICH               PICH\_Ec / CPICH\_Ec = -5 dB
  S-CCPCH            S-CCPCH\_Ec / CPICH\_Ec = -2 dB
  ------------------ ---------------------------------

E.3.3 Measurement of Performance requirements
---------------------------------------------

Table E.3.3 is applicable for measurements on the Performance
requirements (clause 7), including clauses 6.3, 5.4.4 and 5.4.4A,
excluding clauses 7.6.1,7.6.2, 7.11 and 7.12.

Table E.3.3.1 is applicable for measurements on the Performance
requirements (clause 7) that are done without a dedicated connection
(i.e. clauses 7.11 and 7.12).

Table E.3.3: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during a connection

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Physical Channel     | Power^2^             | Note                 |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CPICH              | P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior =    | Use of P-CPICH or    |
|                      | −10 dB               | S‑CPICH as phase     |
|                      |                      | reference is         |
|                      |                      | specified for each   |
|                      |                      | requirement and is   |
|                      |                      | also set by higher   |
|                      |                      | layer signalling.    |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| S-CPICH              | S-CPICH\_Ec/Ior =    | When S-CPICH is the  |
|                      | −10 dB               | phase reference in a |
|                      |                      | test condition, the  |
|                      |                      | phase of S-CPICH     |
|                      |                      | shall be 180 degrees |
|                      |                      | offset from the      |
|                      |                      | phase of P-CPICH.    |
|                      |                      | When S-CPICH is not  |
|                      |                      | the phase reference, |
|                      |                      | it is not            |
|                      |                      | transmitted.         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CCPCH              | P-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior =    |                      |
|                      | −12 dB               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| SCH                  | SCH\_Ec/Ior = −12 dB | This power shall be  |
|                      |                      | divided equally      |
|                      |                      | between Primary and  |
|                      |                      | Secondary            |
|                      |                      | Synchronous channels |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| PICH                 | PICH\_Ec/Ior = −15   |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DPCH                 | Test dependent power | When S-CPICH is the  |
|                      |                      | phase reference in a |
|                      |                      | test condition, the  |
|                      |                      | phase of DPCH shall  |
|                      |                      | be 180 degrees       |
|                      |                      | offset from the      |
|                      |                      | phase of\            |
|                      |                      | P-CPICH.             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| OCNS                 | Necessary power so   | OCNS interference    |
|                      | that total transmit  | consists of 16       |
|                      | power spectral       | dedicated data       |
|                      | density of Node B    | channels as          |
|                      | (Ior) adds to one^1^ | specified in table   |
|                      |                      | E.3.6.               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: For dynamic  |                      |                      |
| power correction     |                      |                      |
| required to          |                      |                      |
| compensate for the   |                      |                      |
| presence of          |                      |                      |
| transient channels,  |                      |                      |
| e.g. control         |                      |                      |
| channels, a subset   |                      |                      |
| of the OCNS DPCH     |                      |                      |
| channels may be      |                      |                      |
| used.                |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2: Power levels |                      |                      |
| are based on the     |                      |                      |
| assumption that      |                      |                      |
| multipath            |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions and noise |                      |                      |
| source representing  |                      |                      |
| interference from    |                      |                      |
| other cells Ioc are  |                      |                      |
| turned on after the  |                      |                      |
| call-set-up phase.   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

Table E.3.3.1: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted without a
dedicated connection

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Physical Channel     | Power^2^             | Note                 |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CPICH              | P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior =    |                      |
|                      | −10 dB               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CCPCH              | P-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior =    |                      |
|                      | −12 dB               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| S-CCPCH              | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior =    | This value is set in |
|                      | −12 dB               | case the SCCPCH is   |
|                      |                      | not a test dependent |
|                      |                      | power                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| SCH                  | SCH\_Ec/Ior = −12 dB | This power shall be  |
|                      |                      | divided equally      |
|                      |                      | between Primary and  |
|                      |                      | Secondary            |
|                      |                      | Synchronous channels |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| PICH                 | PICH\_Ec/Ior = −15   | This value is set in |
|                      | dB                   | case the PICH is not |
|                      |                      | a test dependent     |
|                      |                      | power                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| AICH                 | AICH\_Ec/Ior = −10   | This value is set in |
|                      | dB                   | case the AICH is not |
|                      |                      | a test dependent     |
|                      |                      | power                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| OCNS                 | Necessary power so   | OCNS interference    |
|                      | that total transmit  | consists of 16       |
|                      | power spectral       | dedicated data       |
|                      | density of Node B    | channels as          |
|                      | (Ior) adds to one^1^ | specified in table   |
|                      |                      | E.3.6.               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: For dynamic  |                      |                      |
| power correction     |                      |                      |
| required to          |                      |                      |
| compensate for the   |                      |                      |
| presence of          |                      |                      |
| transient channels,  |                      |                      |
| e.g. control         |                      |                      |
| channels, a subset   |                      |                      |
| of the OCNS DPCH     |                      |                      |
| channels may be      |                      |                      |
| used.                |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2: Power levels |                      |                      |
| are based on the     |                      |                      |
| assumption that      |                      |                      |
| multipath            |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions and noise |                      |                      |
| source representing  |                      |                      |
| interference from    |                      |                      |
| other cells Ioc are  |                      |                      |
| turned on after the  |                      |                      |
| call-set-up phase.   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

E.3.4 Connection with open-loop transmit diversity mode
-------------------------------------------------------

Table E.3.4 is applicable for measurements for clause 7.6.1.

Table E.3.4: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during a connection

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Physical Channel     | Power^2^             | Note                 |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CPICH (antenna 1)  | P-CPICH\_Ec1/Ior =   | 1\. Total            |
|                      | −13 dB               | P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior =    |
|                      |                      | −10 dB               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CPICH (antenna 2)  | P-CPICH\_Ec2/Ior =   |                      |
|                      | −13 dB               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CCPCH (antenna 1)  | P-CCPCH\_Ec1/Ior =   | 1\. STTD applied     |
|                      | −15 dB               |                      |
|                      |                      | 2\. Total            |
|                      |                      | P-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior =    |
|                      |                      | −12 dB               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CCPCH (antenna 2)  | P-CCPCH\_Ec2/Ior =   |                      |
|                      | −15 dB               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| SCH (antenna 1 / 2)  | SCH\_Ec/Ior = −12 dB | 1\. TSTD applied.    |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 2\. This power shall |
|                      |                      | be divided equally   |
|                      |                      | between Primary and  |
|                      |                      | Secondary            |
|                      |                      | Synchronous channels |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| PICH (antenna 1)     | PICH\_Ec1/Ior = −18  | 1\. STTD applied     |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | 2\. Total            |
|                      |                      | PICH\_Ec/Ior = −15   |
|                      |                      | dB                   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| PICH (antenna 2)     | PICH\_Ec2/Ior = −18  |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DPCH                 | Test dependent power | 1\. STTD applied     |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 2\. Total power from |
|                      |                      | both antennas        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| OCNS                 | Necessary power so   | 1\. This power shall |
|                      | that total transmit  | be divided equally   |
|                      | power spectral       | between antennas     |
|                      | density of Node B    |                      |
|                      | (Ior) adds to one^1^ | 2\. OCNS             |
|                      |                      | interference         |
|                      |                      | consists of 16       |
|                      |                      | dedicated data       |
|                      |                      | channels as          |
|                      |                      | specified in Table   |
|                      |                      | E.3.6.               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: For dynamic  |                      |                      |
| power correction     |                      |                      |
| required to          |                      |                      |
| compensate for the   |                      |                      |
| presence of          |                      |                      |
| transient channels,  |                      |                      |
| e.g. control         |                      |                      |
| channels, a subset   |                      |                      |
| of the OCNS DPCH     |                      |                      |
| channels may be      |                      |                      |
| used.                |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2: Power levels |                      |                      |
| are based on the     |                      |                      |
| assumption that      |                      |                      |
| multipath            |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions and noise |                      |                      |
| source representing  |                      |                      |
| interference from    |                      |                      |
| other cells Ioc are  |                      |                      |
| turned on after the  |                      |                      |
| call-set-up phase.   |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 3: The time     |                      |                      |
| alignment of the     |                      |                      |
| P-CPICH from Antenna |                      |                      |
| 1 and Antenna 2 as   |                      |                      |
| measured at the UE   |                      |                      |
| antenna connection   |                      |                      |
| shall be within 1/4  |                      |                      |
| chip.                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

E.3.5 Connection with closed loop transmit diversity mode
---------------------------------------------------------

table E.3.5 is applicable for measurements for clause 7.6.2.

Table E.3.5: Downlink Physical Channels transmitted during a connection

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Physical Channel     | Power^2^             | Note                 |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CPICH (antenna 1)  | P-CPICH\_Ec1/Ior =   | 1\. Total            |
|                      | −13 dB               | P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior =    |
|                      |                      | −10 dB               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CPICH (antenna 2)  | P-CPICH\_Ec2/Ior =   |                      |
|                      | −13 dB               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CCPCH (antenna 1)  | P-CCPCH\_Ec1/Ior =   | 1\. STTD applied     |
|                      | −15 dB               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| P-CCPCH (antenna 2)  | P-CCPCH\_Ec2/Ior =   | 1\. STTD applied,    |
|                      | −15 dB               | total                |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | P-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior =    |
|                      |                      | −12 dB               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| SCH (antenna 1 / 2)  | SCH\_Ec/Ior = −12 dB | 1\. TSTD applied     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| PICH (antenna 1)     | PICH\_Ec1/Ior = −18  | 1\. STTD applied     |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | 2\. STTD applied,    |
|                      |                      | total PICH\_Ec/Ior = |
|                      |                      | −15 dB               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| PICH (antenna 2)     | PICH\_Ec2/Ior = −18  |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| DPCH                 | Test dependent power | 1\. Total power from |
|                      |                      | both antennas        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| OCNS                 | Necessary power so   | 1\. This power shall |
|                      | that total transmit  | be divided equally   |
|                      | power spectral       | between antennas     |
|                      | density of Node B    |                      |
|                      | (Ior) adds to        | 2\. OCNS             |
|                      | one^1,3^             | interference         |
|                      |                      | consists of 16       |
|                      |                      | dedicated data       |
|                      |                      | channels as          |
|                      |                      | specified in Table   |
|                      |                      | E.3.6.               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| NOTE 1: For dynamic  |                      |                      |
| power correction     |                      |                      |
| required to          |                      |                      |
| compensate for the   |                      |                      |
| presence of          |                      |                      |
| transient channels,  |                      |                      |
| e.g. control         |                      |                      |
| channels, a subset   |                      |                      |
| of the OCNS DPCH     |                      |                      |
| channels may be      |                      |                      |
| used.                |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 2: Power levels |                      |                      |
| are based on the     |                      |                      |
| assumption that      |                      |                      |
| multipath            |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions and noise |                      |                      |
| source representing  |                      |                      |
| interference from    |                      |                      |
| other cells Ioc are  |                      |                      |
| turned on after the  |                      |                      |
| call-set-up phase.   |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 3: For the case |                      |                      |
| of DPCH with         |                      |                      |
| transmit diversity,  |                      |                      |
| the OCNS power       |                      |                      |
| calculation shall be |                      |                      |
| based on the         |                      |                      |
| addition of the      |                      |                      |
| power from Antenna 1 |                      |                      |
| and Antenna 2, i.e.  |                      |                      |
| disregarding any     |                      |                      |
| phase relationship   |                      |                      |
| between the          |                      |                      |
| antennas.            |                      |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
| NOTE 4: The time     |                      |                      |
| alignment of the     |                      |                      |
| P-CPICH from Antenna |                      |                      |
| 1 and Antenna 2 as   |                      |                      |
| measured at the UE   |                      |                      |
| antenna connection   |                      |                      |
| shall be within 1/4  |                      |                      |
| chip.                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

E.3.6 OCNS Definition
---------------------

Table E.3.6: DPCH Channelization Code and relative level settings for
OCNS signal.

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   Channelization   | -   Relative Level   | -   DPCH Data        |
|     Code at          |     setting          |                      |
|     SF=128^1^        |     (dB)^1,2^        |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   2                | -   -1               | -   The DPCH data    |
|                      |                      |     for each         |
|                      |                      |     channelization   |
|                      |                      |     code shall be    |
|                      |                      |     uncorrelated     |
|                      |                      |     with each other  |
|                      |                      |     and with any     |
|                      |                      |     wanted signal    |
|                      |                      |     over the period  |
|                      |                      |     of any           |
|                      |                      |     measurement. For |
|                      |                      |     OCNS with        |
|                      |                      |     transmit         |
|                      |                      |     diversity the    |
|                      |                      |     DPCH data sent   |
|                      |                      |     to each antenna  |
|                      |                      |     shall be either  |
|                      |                      |     STTD encoded or  |
|                      |                      |     generated from   |
|                      |                      |     uncorrelated     |
|                      |                      |     sources.         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   11               | -   -3               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   17               | -   -3               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   23               | -   -5               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   31               | -   -2               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   38               | -   -4               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   47               | -   -8               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   55               | -   -7               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   62               | -   -4               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   69               | -   -6               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   78               | -   -5               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   85               | -   -9               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   94               | -   -10              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   125              | -   -8               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   113              | -   -6               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| -   119              | -   0                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

NOTE 1: The DPCH Channelization Codes and relative level settings are
chosen to simulate a signal with realistic Peak to Average Ratio.

NOTE 2: The relative level setting specified in dB refers only to the
relationship between the OCNS channels. The level of the OCNS channels
relative to the Ior of the complete signal is a function of the power of
the other channels in the signal with the intention that the power of
the group of OCNS channels is used to make the total signal add up to 1.

E.4 W-CDMA Modulated Interferer for non-HSDPA test cases
========================================================

The W-CDMA modulated interferer consists of the downlink channels
defined in table E.4.1 plus the OCNS channels defined in Table E.3.6.
The relative power of the OCNS channels shall be such that the power of
the total signal adds up to one. In this subclause Ior refers to the
power of the interferer.

Table E.4.1: Spreading Code, Timing offsets and relative level settings
for W-CDMA Modulated Interferer signal channels.

  -------------- ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Channel Type   Spreading Factor   Channelization Code                                                                         Timing offset (x256T~chip~)                                                               Power                       NOTE
  P-CCPCH        256                1                                                                                           0                                                                                         P-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior = -10 dB    
  SCH            256                \-                                                                                          0                                                                                         SCH\_Ec/Ior = -10 dB        The SCH power shall be divided equally between Primary and Secondary Synchronous channels
  P-CPICH        256                0                                                                                           0                                                                                         P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior = \*10 dB   
  PICH           256                16                                                                                          16                                                                                        PICH\_Ec/Ior = -15 dB       
  OCNS           See table E.3.6    Necessary power so that total transmit power spectral density of Node B (Ior) adds to one   OCNS interference consists of the dedicated data channels. as specified in Table E.3.6.                               
  -------------- ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

E.5 HSDPA DL Physical channels
==============================

E.5.0 Downlink Physical Channels for connection set-up
------------------------------------------------------

Table E.5.0: Levels for HSDPA connection setup

+-------------------------+------+-------+
| Parameter               | Unit | Value |
|                         |      |       |
| During Connection setup |      |       |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB   | -10   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB   | -12   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB   | -15   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB   | -5    |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB   | -3.1  |
+-------------------------+------+-------+

E.5.1 Downlink Physical Channels for measurement
------------------------------------------------

Table E.5.1 is applicable for the measurements for tests in subclauses
5.2A, 5.2AA, 5.2C, 5.7A, 5.9A, 5.10A, 5.13.1A, 5.13.1AA, 5.13.2A, 6.3A,
9.2.1A to 9.2.1GD, 9.3.1, 9.3.1C (HSDPA categories 1-8, 11 and 12),
9.3.2, 9.5.1 and 9.5.1A.

Table E.5.1A is applicable for the measurements for tests in subclauses
6.3B, 9.2.1H, 9.2.1HA, 9.2.1HB, 9.2.1HC, 9.2.1HD, 9.2.1I, 9.3.1, 9.3.1C
(HSDPA categories 9,10 and 13-20), 9.3.1A and 9.3.2B.

Table E.5.2 is applicable for the measurements for tests in subclauses
9.2.2A to 9.2.2E, 9.3.3, 9.3.4, 9.2.4A, 9.2.4B, 9.3.7A to 9.3.7E.

Table E.5.3 is applicable for the measurements for tests in subclauses
9.2.3A to 9.2.3E, 9.3.5 and 9.3.6.

Table E.5.4 is applicable for the measurements for tests in subclauses
9.4.1, 9.4.1A.

Table E.5.4A is applicable for the measurements for tests in subclauses
9.4.2, 9.4.2A, 9.4.3, 9.4.4 and 9.4.4A.

Table E.5.4B is applicable for the measurements for DC-HSDPA,
DB-DC-HSDPA and 4C-HSDPA tests in sections 5 and 6.

Table E.5.4C is applicable for the measurements for tests in subclauses
9.6.1 and 9.6.2.

Table E.5.4D is applicable for the measurements for tests in subclauses
9.2.4E, 9.2.4F, 9.2.4G. 9.2.4H, 9.3.7F, 9.3.7G, 9.3.7H, 9.3.7I and
9.3.7J

Table E.5.4E is applicable for the measurements for tests in subclauses
9.4.4B, 9.4.4C, 9.4.4D and 9.4.4E.

Table E.5.1: Downlink physical channels for HSDPA/DC-HSDPA/4C-HSDPA
receiver testing for Single Link performance

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Physical       | Parameter      | Value          | NOTE           |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P              | -10dB          |                |
|                | -CPICH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P              | -12dB          | Mean power     |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | level is       |
|                |                |                | shared with    |
|                |                |                | SCH.           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SCH            | SCH\_Ec/Ior    | -12dB          | Mean power     |
|                |                |                | level is       |
|                |                |                | shared with    |
|                |                |                | P-CCPCH -- SCH |
|                |                |                | includes P-    |
|                |                |                | and S-SCH,     |
|                |                |                | with power     |
|                |                |                | split between  |
|                |                |                | both.          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | P-SCH code is  |
|                |                |                | S\_dl,0 as per |
|                |                |                | \[14\]         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | S-SCH pattern  |
|                |                |                | is scrambling  |
|                |                |                | code group 0   |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH           | PICH\_Ec/Ior   | -15dB          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH           | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | Test-specific  | 12.2 kbps DL   |
|                |                | only for       | reference      |
|                |                | serving        | measurement    |
|                |                | HS-DSCH cell,  | channel as     |
|                |                | omitted        | defined in     |
|                |                | otherwise      | Annex C.3.1    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-1      | H              | Test-specific  | Specifies      |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | fraction of    |
|                |                |                | Node-B         |
|                |                |                | radiated power |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | when TTI is    |
|                |                |                | active (i.e.   |
|                |                |                | due to minimum |
|                |                |                | inter-TTI      |
|                |                |                | interval).     |
|                |                |                | During TTIs,   |
|                |                |                | in which the   |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH is not |
|                |                |                | allocated to   |
|                |                |                | the UE the     |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH shall  |
|                |                |                | be transmitted |
|                |                |                | continuously   |
|                |                |                | with constant  |
|                |                |                | power.         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-2      | H              | DTX'd          | No signalling  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | scheduled, or  |
|                |                |                | power          |
|                |                |                | radiated, on   |
|                |                |                | this HS-SCCH,  |
|                |                |                | but signalled  |
|                |                |                | to the UE as   |
|                |                |                | present.       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-3      | H              | DTX'd          | As HS-SCCH-2.  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-4      | H              | DTX'd          | No signalling  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | scheduled, or  |
|                |                |                | power          |
|                |                |                | radiated, on   |
|                |                |                | this HS-SCCH,  |
|                |                |                | but signalled  |
|                |                |                | to the UE as   |
|                |                |                | present only   |
|                |                |                | in HSDPA       |
|                |                |                | configuration  |
|                |                |                | and not in     |
|                |                |                | multi cell     |
|                |                |                | configurations |
|                |                |                | e.g. DC-HSDPA. |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH       | HS             | Test-specific  | .              |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| OCNS           |                | Necessary      | OCNS           |
|                |                | power so that  | interference   |
|                |                | total transmit | consists of a  |
|                |                | power spectral | number of      |
|                |                | density of     | dedicated data |
|                |                | Node B (Ior)   | channels as    |
|                |                | adds to one^1^ | specified in   |
|                |                |                | table E.5.5.   |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5 is |
|                |                |                | the definition |
|                |                |                | of OCNS for    |
|                |                |                | the test case  |
|                |                |                | which uses a   |
|                |                |                | maximum of ten |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH.      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: For    |                |                |                |
| dynamic power  |                |                |                |
| correction     |                |                |                |
| required to    |                |                |                |
| compensate for |                |                |                |
| the presence   |                |                |                |
| of transient   |                |                |                |
| channels, e.g. |                |                |                |
| control        |                |                |                |
| channels, a    |                |                |                |
| subset of the  |                |                |                |
| OCNS DPCH      |                |                |                |
| channels may   |                |                |                |
| be used.       |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table E.5.1A: Downlink physical channels for HSDPA/DC-HSDPA/4C-HSDPA
receiver testing for Single Link performance, FRC H-Set 8 to H-Set 10

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Physical       | Parameter      | Value          | Note           |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P              | -10dB          |                |
|                | -CPICH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P              | -12dB          | Mean power     |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | level is       |
|                |                |                | shared with    |
|                |                |                | SCH.           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SCH            | SCH\_Ec/Ior    | -12dB          | Mean power     |
|                |                |                | level is       |
|                |                |                | shared with    |
|                |                |                | P-CCPCH -- SCH |
|                |                |                | includes P-    |
|                |                |                | and S-SCH,     |
|                |                |                | with power     |
|                |                |                | split between  |
|                |                |                | both.          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | P-SCH code is  |
|                |                |                | S\_dl,0 as per |
|                |                |                | \[14\]         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | S-SCH pattern  |
|                |                |                | is scrambling  |
|                |                |                | code group 0   |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH           | PICH\_Ec/Ior   | -15dB          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH           | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | Test-specific  | 12.2 kbps DL   |
|                |                | only for       | reference      |
|                |                | serving        | measurement    |
|                |                | HS-DSCH cell,  | channel as     |
|                |                | omitted        | defined in     |
|                |                | otherwise      | Annex C.3.1    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-1      | H              | Test-specific  | Specifies      |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | fraction of    |
|                |                |                | Node-B         |
|                |                |                | radiated power |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | when TTI is    |
|                |                |                | active (i.e.   |
|                |                |                | due to minimum |
|                |                |                | inter-TTI      |
|                |                |                | interval).     |
|                |                |                | During TTIs,   |
|                |                |                | in which the   |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH is not |
|                |                |                | allocated to   |
|                |                |                | the UE the     |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH shall  |
|                |                |                | be transmitted |
|                |                |                | continuously   |
|                |                |                | with constant  |
|                |                |                | power.         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-2      | H              | DTX'd          | No signalling  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | scheduled, or  |
|                |                |                | power          |
|                |                |                | radiated, on   |
|                |                |                | this HS-SCCH,  |
|                |                |                | but signalled  |
|                |                |                | to the UE as   |
|                |                |                | present.       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH       | HS             | Test-specific  | .              |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| OCNS           |                | Necessary      | OCNS           |
|                |                | power so that  | interference   |
|                |                | total transmit | consists of a  |
|                |                | power spectral | number of      |
|                |                | density of     | dedicated data |
|                |                | Node B (Ior)   | channels as    |
|                |                | adds to one    | specified in   |
|                |                |                | table E.5.5A.  |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5A   |
|                |                |                | is the         |
|                |                |                | definition of  |
|                |                |                | OCNS for the   |
|                |                |                | test case      |
|                |                |                | which uses a   |
|                |                |                | maximum of 11  |
|                |                |                | to 15          |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH.      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table E.5.2: Downlink physical channels for HSDPA/DC-HSDPA receiver
testing for Open Loop Transmit Diversity performance and MIMO
performance

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Physical       | Parameter      | Value          | Note           |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P-             | -13dB          | 1\. Total      |
| (antenna 1)    | CPICH\_Ec1/Ior |                | P              |
|                |                |                | -CPICH\_Ec/Ior |
|                |                |                | = -10dB        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P-             | -13dB          |                |
| (antenna 2)    | CPICH\_Ec2/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P-             | -15dB          | 1\. STTD       |
| (antenna 1)    | CCPCH\_Ec1/Ior |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Total      |
|                |                |                | P-CCPCH Ec/Ior |
|                |                |                | is --12dB.     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P-             | -15dB          |                |
| (antenna 2)    | CCPCH\_Ec2/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SCH (antenna   | SCH\_Ec/Ior    | -12dB          | 1\. TSTD       |
| 1/2)           |                |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Power      |
|                |                |                | divided        |
|                |                |                | equally        |
|                |                |                | between        |
|                |                |                | primary and    |
|                |                |                | secondary SCH. |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH (antenna  | PICH\_Ec1/Ior  | -18dB          | 1\. STTD       |
| 1)             |                |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Total PICH |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior is      |
|                |                |                | --15dB.        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH (antenna  | PICH\_Ec2/Ior  | -18dB          |                |
| 2)             |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH           | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | Test-specific  | 1\. STTD       |
|                |                | only for       | applied.       |
|                |                | serving        |                |
|                |                | HS-DSCH cell,  | 2\. Total      |
|                |                | omitted        | power from     |
|                |                | otherwise      | both antennas  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-1      | H              | Test-specific  | 1\. STTD       |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Specifies  |
|                |                |                | fraction of    |
|                |                |                | Node-B         |
|                |                |                | radiated power |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | when TTI is    |
|                |                |                | active (i.e.   |
|                |                |                | due to minimum |
|                |                |                | inter-TTI      |
|                |                |                | interval).     |
|                |                |                | During TTIs,   |
|                |                |                | in which the   |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH\_1 is  |
|                |                |                | not allocated  |
|                |                |                | to the UE, the |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH\_1     |
|                |                |                | shall be       |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | continuously   |
|                |                |                | with constant  |
|                |                |                | power.         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-2      | H              | DTX'd          | 1\. UE assumes |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | STTD applied.  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. No         |
|                |                |                | signalling     |
|                |                |                | scheduled, or  |
|                |                |                | power          |
|                |                |                | radiated, on   |
|                |                |                | this HS-SCCH,  |
|                |                |                | but signalled  |
|                |                |                | to the UE as   |
|                |                |                | present.       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH       | HS             | Test-specific  | 1\. STTD       |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Total      |
|                |                |                | power from     |
|                |                |                | both antennas  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| OCNS           |                | Necessary      | 1\. Balance of |
|                |                | power so that  | power of the   |
|                |                | total transmit | Node-B is      |
|                |                | power spectral | assigned to    |
|                |                | density of     | OCNS.          |
|                |                | Node B (Ior)   |                |
|                |                | adds to        | 2\. Power      |
|                |                | one^1,2^       | divided        |
|                |                |                | equally        |
|                |                |                | between        |
|                |                |                | antennas.      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 3\. OCNS       |
|                |                |                | interference   |
|                |                |                | consists of a  |
|                |                |                | number of      |
|                |                |                | dedicated data |
|                |                |                | channels as    |
|                |                |                | specified in   |
|                |                |                | table E.5.5    |
|                |                |                | and E.5.5A.    |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5 is |
|                |                |                | the definition |
|                |                |                | of OCNS for    |
|                |                |                | the test case  |
|                |                |                | which uses a   |
|                |                |                | maximum of ten |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH.      |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5A   |
|                |                |                | is the         |
|                |                |                | definition of  |
|                |                |                | OCNS for the   |
|                |                |                | test case      |
|                |                |                | which uses a   |
|                |                |                | maximum of 11  |
|                |                |                | to 15          |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH.      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: For    |                |                |                |
| dynamic power  |                |                |                |
| correction     |                |                |                |
| required to    |                |                |                |
| compensate for |                |                |                |
| the presence   |                |                |                |
| of transient   |                |                |                |
| channels,      |                |                |                |
| e.g. control   |                |                |                |
| channels, a    |                |                |                |
| subset of the  |                |                |                |
| OCNS DPCH      |                |                |                |
| channels may   |                |                |                |
| be used.       |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: For    |                |                |                |
| the case of    |                |                |                |
| DPCH with      |                |                |                |
| transmit       |                |                |                |
| diversity, the |                |                |                |
| OCNS power     |                |                |                |
| calculation    |                |                |                |
| shall be based |                |                |                |
| on the         |                |                |                |
| addition of    |                |                |                |
| the power from |                |                |                |
| Antenna 1 and  |                |                |                |
| Antenna 2,     |                |                |                |
| i.e.           |                |                |                |
| disregarding   |                |                |                |
| any phase      |                |                |                |
| relationship   |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| antennas.      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table E.5.3: Downlink physical channels for HSDPA receiver testing for
Closed Loop\
Transmit Diversity (Mode-1) performance.

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Physical       | Parameter      | Value          | Note           |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P-             | -13dB          | 1\. Total      |
| (antenna 1)    | CPICH\_Ec1/Ior |                | P              |
|                |                |                | -CPICH\_Ec/Ior |
|                |                |                | = -10dB        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P-             | -13dB          |                |
| (antenna 2)    | CPICH\_Ec2/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P-             | -15dB          | 1\. STTD       |
| (antenna 1)    | CCPCH\_Ec1/Ior |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Total      |
|                |                |                | P-CCPCH Ec/Ior |
|                |                |                | is --12dB.     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P-             | -15dB          |                |
| (antenna 2)    | CCPCH\_Ec2/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SCH (antenna   | SCH\_Ec/Ior    | -12dB          | 1\. TSTD       |
| 1/2)           |                |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Power      |
|                |                |                | divided        |
|                |                |                | equally        |
|                |                |                | between        |
|                |                |                | primary and    |
|                |                |                | secondary SCH. |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH (antenna  | PICH\_Ec1/Ior  | -18dB          | 1\. STTD       |
| 1)             |                |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Total PICH |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior is      |
|                |                |                | --15dB.        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH (antenna  | PICH\_Ec2/Ior  | -18dB          |                |
| 2)             |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH           | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | Test-specific  | 1\. CL1        |
|                |                |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Total      |
|                |                |                | power from     |
|                |                |                | both antennas  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-1      | H              | Test-specific  | 1\. STTD       |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Specifies  |
|                |                |                | fraction of    |
|                |                |                | Node-B         |
|                |                |                | radiated power |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | when TTI is    |
|                |                |                | active (i.e.   |
|                |                |                | due to minimum |
|                |                |                | inter-TTI      |
|                |                |                | interval).     |
|                |                |                | During TTIs,   |
|                |                |                | in which the   |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH\_1 is  |
|                |                |                | not allocated  |
|                |                |                | to the UE, the |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH\_1     |
|                |                |                | shall be       |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | continuously   |
|                |                |                | with constant  |
|                |                |                | power.         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-2      | H              | DTX'd          | 1\. UE assumes |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | STTD applied.  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. No         |
|                |                |                | signalling     |
|                |                |                | scheduled, or  |
|                |                |                | power          |
|                |                |                | radiated, on   |
|                |                |                | this HS-SCCH,  |
|                |                |                | but signalled  |
|                |                |                | to the UE as   |
|                |                |                | present.       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-3      | H              | DTX'd          | 1\. As         |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | HS-SCCH-2.     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-4      | H              | DTX'd          | 2\. As         |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | HS-SCCH-2.     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH       | HS             | Test-specific  | 1\. CL1        |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Total      |
|                |                |                | power from     |
|                |                |                | both antennas  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| OCNS           |                | Necessary      | 1\. Balance of |
|                |                | power so that  | power of the   |
|                |                | total transmit | Node-B is      |
|                |                | power spectral | assigned to    |
|                |                | density of     | OCNS.          |
|                |                | Node B (Ior)   |                |
|                |                | adds to        | 2\. Power      |
|                |                | one^1,2^       | divided        |
|                |                |                | equally        |
|                |                |                | between        |
|                |                |                | antennas.      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 3\. OCNS       |
|                |                |                | interference   |
|                |                |                | consists of 6  |
|                |                |                | dedicated data |
|                |                |                | channels as    |
|                |                |                | specified in   |
|                |                |                | table E.5.5.   |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5 is |
|                |                |                | the definition |
|                |                |                | of OCNS for    |
|                |                |                | the test case  |
|                |                |                | which uses a   |
|                |                |                | maximum of ten |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH.      |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5A   |
|                |                |                | is the         |
|                |                |                | definition of  |
|                |                |                | OCNS for the   |
|                |                |                | test case      |
|                |                |                | which uses a   |
|                |                |                | maximum of 11  |
|                |                |                | to 15          |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH.      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: For    |                |                |                |
| dynamic power  |                |                |                |
| correction     |                |                |                |
| required to    |                |                |                |
| compensate for |                |                |                |
| the presence   |                |                |                |
| of transient   |                |                |                |
| channels,      |                |                |                |
| e.g. control   |                |                |                |
| channels, a    |                |                |                |
| subset of the  |                |                |                |
| OCNS DPCH      |                |                |                |
| channels may   |                |                |                |
| be used.       |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: For    |                |                |                |
| the case of    |                |                |                |
| DPCH with      |                |                |                |
| transmit       |                |                |                |
| diversity, the |                |                |                |
| OCNS power     |                |                |                |
| calculation    |                |                |                |
| shall be based |                |                |                |
| on the         |                |                |                |
| addition of    |                |                |                |
| the power from |                |                |                |
| Antenna 1 and  |                |                |                |
| Antenna 2,     |                |                |                |
| i.e.           |                |                |                |
| disregarding   |                |                |                |
| any phase      |                |                |                |
| relationship   |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| antennas.      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table E.5.4: Downlink physical channels for HSDPA receiver testing for
HS-SCCH detection performance

+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Units | Value             | Comment           |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| CPICH             | dB    | -10               |                   |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| CCPCH             | dB    | -12               | Mean power level  |
|                   |       |                   | is shared with    |
|                   |       |                   | SCH.              |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| SCH               | dB    | -12               | Mean power level  |
|                   |       |                   | is shared with    |
|                   |       |                   | P-CCPCH -- SCH    |
|                   |       |                   | includes P- and   |
|                   |       |                   | S-SCH, with power |
|                   |       |                   | split between     |
|                   |       |                   | both.             |
|                   |       |                   |                   |
|                   |       |                   | P-SCH code is     |
|                   |       |                   | S\_dl,0 as per    |
|                   |       |                   | \[14\]            |
|                   |       |                   |                   |
|                   |       |                   | S-SCH pattern is  |
|                   |       |                   | scrambling code   |
|                   |       |                   | group 0           |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| PICH              | dB    | -15               |                   |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-PDSCH-1        | dB    | -10               | HS-PDSCH          |
|                   |       |                   | associated with   |
|                   |       |                   | HS-SCCH-1. The    |
|                   |       |                   | HS-PDSCH shall be |
|                   |       |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |       |                   | continuously with |
|                   |       |                   | constant power.   |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-PDSCH-2        | dB    | DTX               | HS-PDSCH          |
|                   |       |                   | associated with   |
|                   |       |                   | HS-SCCH-2         |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-PDSCH-3        | dB    | DTX               | HS-PDSCH          |
|                   |       |                   | associated with   |
|                   |       |                   | HS-SCCH-3         |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-PDSCH-4        | dB    | DTX               | HS-PDSCH          |
|                   |       |                   | associated with   |
|                   |       |                   | HS-SCCH-4         |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| DPCH              | dB    | -8                | 12.2 kbps DL      |
|                   |       |                   | reference         |
|                   |       |                   | measurement       |
|                   |       |                   | channel as        |
|                   |       |                   | defined in Annex  |
|                   |       |                   | C.3.1             |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH-1         | dB    | Test Specific     | All HS-SCCH's     |
|                   |       |                   | allocated equal.  |
|                   |       |                   | Specifies when    |
|                   |       |                   | TTI is active.    |
|                   |       |                   | During TTIs, in   |
|                   |       |                   | which the         |
|                   |       |                   | HS-SCCH's are not |
|                   |       |                   | allocated to the  |
|                   |       |                   | UE, the HS-SCCH's |
|                   |       |                   | shall be          |
|                   |       |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |       |                   | continuously with |
|                   |       |                   | constant power.   |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH-2         | dB    |                   |                   |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH-3         | dB    |                   |                   |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH-4         | dB    |                   |                   |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| OCNS              | dB    | Remaining power   | OCNS interference |
|                   |       | at Node-B         | consists of 6     |
|                   |       | (including        | dedicated data    |
|                   |       | HS-SCCH power     | channels as       |
|                   |       | allocation when   | specified in      |
|                   |       | HS-SCCH's         | table E.5.5.      |
|                   |       | inactive).^1,2^   | Table E.5.5 is    |
|                   |       |                   | the definition of |
|                   |       |                   | OCNS for the test |
|                   |       |                   | case which uses a |
|                   |       |                   | maximum of ten    |
|                   |       |                   | HS-PDSCH. Table   |
|                   |       |                   | E.5.5A is the     |
|                   |       |                   | definition of     |
|                   |       |                   | OCNS for the test |
|                   |       |                   | case which uses a |
|                   |       |                   | maximum of 11 to  |
|                   |       |                   | 15 HS-PDSCH.      |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+
| NOTE 1: For       |       |                   |                   |
| dynamic power     |       |                   |                   |
| correction        |       |                   |                   |
| required to       |       |                   |                   |
| compensate for    |       |                   |                   |
| the presence of   |       |                   |                   |
| transient         |       |                   |                   |
| channels, e.g.    |       |                   |                   |
| control channels, |       |                   |                   |
| a subset of the   |       |                   |                   |
| OCNS DPCH         |       |                   |                   |
| channels may be   |       |                   |                   |
| used.             |       |                   |                   |
|                   |       |                   |                   |
| NOTE 2: For the   |       |                   |                   |
| case of DPCH with |       |                   |                   |
| transmit          |       |                   |                   |
| diversity, the    |       |                   |                   |
| OCNS power        |       |                   |                   |
| calculation shall |       |                   |                   |
| be based on the   |       |                   |                   |
| addition of the   |       |                   |                   |
| power from        |       |                   |                   |
| Antenna 1 and     |       |                   |                   |
| Antenna 2, i.e.   |       |                   |                   |
| disregarding any  |       |                   |                   |
| phase             |       |                   |                   |
| relationship      |       |                   |                   |
| between the       |       |                   |                   |
| antennas.         |       |                   |                   |
+-------------------+-------+-------------------+-------------------+

Table E.5.4A: Downlink physical channels for HSDPA receiver testing for
HS-SCCH detection with Open Loop Transmit Diversity performance and MIMO
performance

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Parameter      | Units          | Value          | Comment        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P-             | -13dB          | 1\. Total      |
| (antenna 1)    | CPICH\_Ec1/Ior |                | P              |
|                |                |                | -CPICH\_Ec/Ior |
|                |                |                | = -10dB        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P-             | -13dB          |                |
| (antenna 2)    | CPICH\_Ec2/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P-             | -15dB          | 1\. STTD       |
| (antenna 1)    | CCPCH\_Ec1/Ior |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Total      |
|                |                |                | P-CCPCH Ec/Ior |
|                |                |                | is --12dB.     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P-             | -15dB          |                |
| (antenna 2)    | CCPCH\_Ec2/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SCH (antenna   | SCH\_Ec/Ior    | -12dB          | 1\. TSTD       |
| 1/2)           |                |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Power      |
|                |                |                | divided        |
|                |                |                | equally        |
|                |                |                | between        |
|                |                |                | primary and    |
|                |                |                | secondary SCH. |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH (antenna  | PICH\_Ec1/Ior  | -18dB          | 1\. STTD       |
| 1)             |                |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Total PICH |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior is      |
|                |                |                | --15dB.        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH (antenna  | PICH\_Ec2/Ior  | -18dB          |                |
| 2)             |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH-1     | dB             | -10 dB         | 1\. STTD       |
|                |                |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. HS-PDSCH   |
|                |                |                | associated     |
|                |                |                | with           |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH-1. The |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH shall |
|                |                |                | be transmitted |
|                |                |                | continuously   |
|                |                |                | with constant  |
|                |                |                | power.         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 3\. Total      |
|                |                |                | power from     |
|                |                |                | both antennas  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH-2     | dB             | DTX            | HS-PDSCH       |
|                |                |                | associated     |
|                |                |                | with HS-SCCH-2 |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH-3     | dB             | DTX            | HS-PDSCH       |
|                |                |                | associated     |
|                |                |                | with HS-SCCH-3 |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH-4     | dB             | DTX            | HS-PDSCH       |
|                |                |                | associated     |
|                |                |                | with HS-SCCH-4 |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH           | dB             | -8             | 1\. STTD       |
|                |                |                | applied.       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Total      |
|                |                |                | power from     |
|                |                |                | both antennas  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-1      | dB             | Test Specific  | 1\. UE assumes |
|                |                |                | STTD applied.  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. All        |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH's      |
|                |                |                | allocated      |
|                |                |                | equal.         |
|                |                |                | Specifies when |
|                |                |                | TTI is active. |
|                |                |                | During TTIs,   |
|                |                |                | in which the   |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH's are  |
|                |                |                | not allocated  |
|                |                |                | to the UE, the |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH's      |
|                |                |                | shall be       |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | continuously   |
|                |                |                | with constant  |
|                |                |                | power.         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-2      | dB             |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-3      | dB             |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-4      | dB             |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| OCNS           | dB             | Remaining      | OCNS           |
|                |                | power at       | interference   |
|                |                | Node-B         | consists of a  |
|                |                | (including     | number of      |
|                |                | HS-SCCH power  | dedicated data |
|                |                | allocation     | channels as    |
|                |                | when HS-SCCH's | specified in   |
|                |                | i              | table E.5.5    |
|                |                | nactive).^1,2^ | and E.5.5A.    |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5 is |
|                |                |                | the definition |
|                |                |                | of OCNS for    |
|                |                |                | the test case  |
|                |                |                | which uses a   |
|                |                |                | maximum of ten |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH.      |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5A   |
|                |                |                | is the         |
|                |                |                | definition of  |
|                |                |                | OCNS for the   |
|                |                |                | test case      |
|                |                |                | which uses a   |
|                |                |                | maximum of 11  |
|                |                |                | to 15          |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH.      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE 1: For    |                |                |                |
| dynamic power  |                |                |                |
| correction     |                |                |                |
| required to    |                |                |                |
| compensate for |                |                |                |
| the presence   |                |                |                |
| of transient   |                |                |                |
| channels, e.g. |                |                |                |
| control        |                |                |                |
| channels, a    |                |                |                |
| subset of the  |                |                |                |
| OCNS DPCH      |                |                |                |
| channels may   |                |                |                |
| be used.       |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE 2: For    |                |                |                |
| the case of    |                |                |                |
| DPCH with      |                |                |                |
| transmit       |                |                |                |
| diversity, the |                |                |                |
| OCNS power     |                |                |                |
| calculation    |                |                |                |
| shall be based |                |                |                |
| on the         |                |                |                |
| addition of    |                |                |                |
| the power from |                |                |                |
| Antenna 1 and  |                |                |                |
| Antenna 2,     |                |                |                |
| i.e.           |                |                |                |
| disregarding   |                |                |                |
| any phase      |                |                |                |
| relationship   |                |                |                |
| between the    |                |                |                |
| antennas.      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table E.5.4B: Downlink physical channels for DC-HSDPA/4C-HSDPA Receiver
testing

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Physical       | Parameter      | Value          | Note           |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P              | -10 dB         |                |
|                | -CPICH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P              | -12 dB         | Mean power     |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | level is       |
|                |                |                | shared with    |
|                |                |                | SCH.           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SCH            | SCH\_Ec/Ior    | -12 dB         | Mean power     |
|                |                |                | level is       |
|                |                |                | shared with    |
|                |                |                | P-CCPCH -- SCH |
|                |                |                | includes P-    |
|                |                |                | and S-SCH,     |
|                |                |                | with power     |
|                |                |                | split between  |
|                |                |                | both.          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | P-SCH code is  |
|                |                |                | S\_dl,0 as per |
|                |                |                | TS25.213       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | S-SCH pattern  |
|                |                |                | is scrambling  |
|                |                |                | code group 0   |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH           | PICH\_Ec/Ior   | -15 dB         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH           | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | Test-specific  | 12.2 kbps DL   |
|                |                | only for       | reference      |
|                |                | serving        | measurement    |
|                |                | HS-DSCH cell,  | channel as     |
|                |                | omitted        | defined in     |
|                |                | otherwise      | Annex C.3.1    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-1      | H              | -9 dB          | Specifies      |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | fraction of    |
|                |                |                | Node-B         |
|                |                |                | radiated power |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | when TTI is    |
|                |                |                | active (i.e.   |
|                |                |                | due to minimum |
|                |                |                | inter-TTI      |
|                |                |                | interval).     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-2      | H              | DTX'd          | No signalling  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | scheduled, or  |
|                |                |                | power          |
|                |                |                | radiated, on   |
|                |                |                | this HS-SCCH,  |
|                |                |                | but signalled  |
|                |                |                | to the UE as   |
|                |                |                | present.       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-3      | H              | DTX'd          | As HS-SCCH-2.  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH       | HS             | Test-specific  |                |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| OCNS           |                | Necessary      | OCNS           |
|                |                | power so that  | interference   |
|                |                | total transmit | consists of a  |
|                |                | power spectral | number of      |
|                |                | density of     | dedicated data |
|                |                | Node B (Ior)   | channels as    |
|                |                | adds to one    | specified in   |
|                |                |                | table E.5.5    |
|                |                |                | and E.5.5A.    |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5    |
|                |                |                | specifies the  |
|                |                |                | OCNS setup for |
|                |                |                | H-Set 1 to     |
|                |                |                | H-Set 6 and    |
|                |                |                | H-Set 12.      |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5A   |
|                |                |                | specifies the  |
|                |                |                | OCNS setup for |
|                |                |                | H-Set 8 and    |
|                |                |                | H-set 10.      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table E.5.4C: Downlink physical channels for HS-DSCH and HS-SCCH
reception in CELL-FACH state

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Physical       | Parameter      | Value          | Note           |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P              | -10 dB         |                |
|                | -CPICH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P              | -12 dB         | Mean power     |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | level is       |
|                |                |                | shared with    |
|                |                |                | SCH.           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SCH            | SCH\_Ec/Ior    | -12 dB         | Mean power     |
|                |                |                | level is       |
|                |                |                | shared with    |
|                |                |                | P-CCPCH -- SCH |
|                |                |                | includes P-    |
|                |                |                | and S-SCH,     |
|                |                |                | with power     |
|                |                |                | split between  |
|                |                |                | both.          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | P-SCH code is  |
|                |                |                | S\_dl,0 as per |
|                |                |                | TS25.213       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | S-SCH pattern  |
|                |                |                | is scrambling  |
|                |                |                | code group 0   |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH           | PICH\_Ec/Ior   | -15 dB         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| AICH           | AICH Ec/Ior    | -10 dB         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-1      | H              | -10 dB         | Specifies      |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | fraction of    |
|                |                |                | Node-B         |
|                |                |                | radiated power |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | when TTI is    |
|                |                |                | active (i.e.   |
|                |                |                | due to minimum |
|                |                |                | inter-TTI      |
|                |                |                | interval).     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-2      | H              | DTX'd          | No signalling  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | scheduled, or  |
|                |                |                | power          |
|                |                |                | radiated, on   |
|                |                |                | this HS-SCCH,  |
|                |                |                | but signalled  |
|                |                |                | to the UE as   |
|                |                |                | present.       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-3      | H              | DTX'd          | As HS-SCCH-2.  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-4      | H              | DTX'd          | As HS-SCCH-2.  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH       | HS             | Test-specific  |                |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| OCNS           |                | Necessary      | OCNS           |
|                |                | power so that  | interference   |
|                |                | total transmit | consists of a  |
|                |                | power spectral | number of      |
|                |                | density of     | dedicated data |
|                |                | Node B (Ior)   | channels as    |
|                |                | adds to one    | specified in   |
|                |                |                | table E.5.5.   |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5 is |
|                |                |                | the definition |
|                |                |                | of OCNS for    |
|                |                |                | the test case  |
|                |                |                | which uses a   |
|                |                |                | maximum of ten |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH.      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table E.5.4D: Downlink physical channels for HSDPA/DC-HSDPA receiver
testing for MIMO performance with asymmetric P-CPICH/S-CPICH power
settings

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Physical       | Parameter      | Value          | Note           |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P              | -10dB          | Phase          |
| (antenna 1)    | -CPICH\_Ec/Ior |                | reference      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| S-CPICH        | S-CPICH Ec/Ior | -13dB          | Phase          |
| (antenna 2)    |                |                | reference      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P              | -12dB          |                |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SCH            | SCH\_Ec/Ior    | -12dB          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH           | PICH\_Ec/Ior   | -15dB          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH           | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | Test-specific  |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-1      | H              | Test-specific  | Specifies      |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | fraction of    |
|                |                |                | Node-B         |
|                |                |                | radiated power |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | when TTI is    |
|                |                |                | active (i.e.   |
|                |                |                | due to minimum |
|                |                |                | inter-TTI      |
|                |                |                | interval).     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-2      | H              | DTX'd          | No signalling  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | scheduled, or  |
|                |                |                | power          |
|                |                |                | radiated, on   |
|                |                |                | this HS-SCCH,  |
|                |                |                | but signalled  |
|                |                |                | to the UE as   |
|                |                |                | present.       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-3      | H              | DTX'd          | As HS-SCCH-2.  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-4      | H              | DTX'd          | No signalling  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | scheduled, or  |
|                |                |                | power          |
|                |                |                | radiated, on   |
|                |                |                | this HS-SCCH,  |
|                |                |                | but signalled  |
|                |                |                | to the UE as   |
|                |                |                | present only   |
|                |                |                | in HSDPA       |
|                |                |                | configuration  |
|                |                |                | and not in     |
|                |                |                | multi cell     |
|                |                |                | configurations |
|                |                |                | e.g. DC-HSDPA. |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH       | HS             | Test-specific  | Precoding      |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                | used.          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| OCNS           |                | Necessary      | 1\. Balance of |
|                |                | power so that  | power of the   |
|                |                | total transmit | Node-B is      |
|                |                | power spectral | assigned to    |
|                |                | density of     | OCNS.          |
|                |                | Node B (Ior)   |                |
|                |                | adds to one    | 2\. OCNS       |
|                |                |                | interference   |
|                |                |                | consists of a  |
|                |                |                | number of      |
|                |                |                | dedicated data |
|                |                |                | channels as    |
|                |                |                | specified in   |
|                |                |                | Table E.5.5and |
|                |                |                | E.5.5A.Table   |
|                |                |                | E.5.5          |
|                |                |                | specifies the  |
|                |                |                | OCNS setup for |
|                |                |                | H-Set 1 to     |
|                |                |                | H-set 6. Table |
|                |                |                | E.5.5A         |
|                |                |                | specifies the  |
|                |                |                | OCNS setup for |
|                |                |                | H-Set 9 and    |
|                |                |                | H-Set 11.      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 3\. OCNS       |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | only on        |
|                |                |                | antenna 1.     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE: Transmit |                |                |                |
| diversity      |                |                |                |
| (STTD or TSTD) |                |                |                |
| is disabled on |                |                |                |
| the associated |                |                |                |
| physical       |                |                |                |
| channels       |                |                |                |
| (P-CPICH,      |                |                |                |
| PICH, SCH,     |                |                |                |
| HS-SCCH,       |                |                |                |
| DPCH).         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table E.5.4E: Downlink physical channels for HSDPA receiver testing for
HS-SCCH detection performance with asymmetric P-CPICH/S-CPICH power
settings

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Physical       | Parameter      | Value          | Note           |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P              | -10dB          | Phase          |
| (antenna 1)    | -CPICH\_Ec/Ior |                | reference      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| S-CPICH        | S-CPICH Ec/Ior | -13dB          | Phase          |
| (antenna 2)    |                |                | reference      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P              | -12dB          |                |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SCH            | SCH\_Ec/Ior    | -12dB          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH           | PICH\_Ec/Ior   | -15dB          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH           | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | -8dB           | 1\. STTD       |
|                |                |                | applicability  |
|                |                |                | is             |
|                |                |                | test-specific. |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2.12.2 kbps DL |
|                |                |                | reference      |
|                |                |                | measurement    |
|                |                |                | channel as     |
|                |                |                | defined in     |
|                |                |                | Annex C.3.1    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-1      | H              | Test-specific  | 1\. STTD       |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | applicability  |
|                |                |                | is test        |
|                |                |                | specific.      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. Specifies  |
|                |                |                | fraction of    |
|                |                |                | Node-B         |
|                |                |                | radiated power |
|                |                |                | transmitted    |
|                |                |                | when TTI is    |
|                |                |                | active (i.e.   |
|                |                |                | due to minimum |
|                |                |                | inter-TTI      |
|                |                |                | interval).     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 2\. All        |
|                |                |                | HS-SCCH's      |
|                |                |                | allocated      |
|                |                |                | equal .\       |
|                |                |                | 3. Specifies   |
|                |                |                | when TTI is    |
|                |                |                | active.        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-2      | H              |                |                |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-3      | H              |                |                |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-4      | H              |                |                |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH-1     | HS             | Necessary      | 1\. Precoding  |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior | power so that  | used.          |
|                |                | total transmit |                |
|                |                | power spectral | 2\. Balance of |
|                |                | density of     | power of the   |
|                |                | Node B (Ior)   | Node-B is      |
|                |                | adds to one    | assigned to    |
|                |                |                | HS-PDSCH.      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH-2     | HS             | DTX            |                |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH-3     | HS             | DTX            |                |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH-4     | HS             | DTX            |                |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| OCNS           |                | DTX            |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| NOTE1:         |                |                |                |
| Transmit       |                |                |                |
| diversity      |                |                |                |
| (STTD or TSTD) |                |                |                |
| is disabled on |                |                |                |
| P-CCPCH, PICH  |                |                |                |
| and SCH.       |                |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
| NOTE2: OCNS is |                |                |                |
| not present    |                |                |                |
| for this test. |                |                |                |
| HS-PDSCH is    |                |                |                |
| used in order  |                |                |                |
| to model other |                |                |                |
| UE MIMO        |                |                |                |
| traffic.       |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

E.5.2 HSDPA OCNS Definition
---------------------------

The selected channelization codes and relative power levels for OCNS
transmission for HSDPA performance assessment for receiver types other
than enhanced performance type 3i are defined in Table E.5.5 and E.5.5A.
The selected codes are designed to have a single length-16 parent code.
The test definition for the enhanced performance type 3i is defined in
section E.5E.

Table E.5.5: OCNS definition for HSDPA receiver testing

  ------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Channelization Code at SF=128   Relative Level setting (dB) (Note 1)   DPCH Data
  122                             0                                      The DPCH data for each channelization code shall be uncorrelated with each other and with any wanted signal over the period of any measurement. For OCNS with transmit diversity the DPCH data sent to each antenna shall be either STTD encoded or generated from uncorrelated sources.
  123                             -2                                     
  124                             -2                                     
  125                             -4                                     
  126                             -1                                     
  127                             -3                                     
  ------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 1: The relative level setting specified in dB refers only to the
relationship between the OCNS channels. The level of the OCNS channels
relative to the Ior of the complete signal is a function of the power of
the other channels in the signal with the intention that the power of
the group of OCNS channels is used to make the total signal add up to 1.

Table E.5.5A: OCNS definition for HSDPA receiver testing, FRC H-Set 8,
H-Set 9, H-Set 10, H-Set 11

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Channelization Code at SF=128                                                                                                                                                                      DPCH Data
  6                                                                                                                                                                                                  For OCNS with transmit diversity the DPCH data sent to each antenna shall be either STTD encoded or generated from uncorrelated sources.
  Note: The core requirements are based on OCNS with 4 codes. However when taking into account the necessary physical channels for call setup, only one code fit the code tree. See table E.6.2.4.   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

E.5.3 Downlink Physical Channels for measurement including test tolerances
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table E.5.6 to E.5.8D are applicable for tests in subclause 9.2. Table
E.5.9 indicates which levels are applied, when the primary level
settings (Ec/Ior and Ior/Ioc) and propagation conditions (PA3, PB3, VA3,
VA30, VA120) vary. Table E.5.6 is also applicable for tests in subclause
9.5.1 and 9.5.1A. For the downlink physical channels of other than
serving cell, OCNS is necessary power so that total transmit power
spectral density of Node B (Ior) adds to one.

Table E.5.6: Level set 1 for HSDPA measurements including test
tolerances

+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-------+
| Parameter               | Unit                                         | Value |
|                         |                                              |       |
| During Measurement      |                                              |       |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB                                           | -9.9  |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB                                           | -11.9 |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB                                           | -14.9 |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB                                           | -5,9  |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB                                           | -7.4  |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB                                           | -5    |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB                                           | -13.3 |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-------+
| Measurement conditions  | PA3 & Case 8:HS-PDSCH = -6dB, Ior/Ioc = 0 dB |       |
|                         |                                              |       |
|                         | Case 8: HS-PDSCH = -9 dB, Ior/Ioc = 0 dB     |       |
+-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-------+

Table E.5.7: Level set 2 for HSDPA measurements including test
tolerances

+-------------------------+-----------------------------+--------+
| Parameter               | Unit                        | Value  |
|                         |                             |        |
| During Measurement      |                             |        |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+--------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB                          | -9.9   |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+--------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB                          | -11.9  |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+--------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB                          | -14.9  |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+--------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB                          | -5.9   |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+--------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB                          | -8.4   |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+--------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB                          | -5     |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+--------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB                          | -10.75 |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+--------+
| Measurement conditions  | HS-PDSCH = -6dB,            |        |
|                         |                             |        |
|                         | Ior/Ioc = 10dB, 5dB and 0dB |        |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+--------+

Table E.5.8: Level set 3 for HSDPA measurements including test
tolerances

+-------------------------+------------------------------+-------+
| Parameter               | Unit                         | Value |
|                         |                              |       |
| During Measurement      |                              |       |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+-------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB                           | -9.9  |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+-------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB                           | -11.9 |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+-------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB                           | -14.9 |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+-------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB                           | -2,9  |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+-------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB                           | -8.4  |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+-------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB                           | -8.4  |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+-------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB                           | off   |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+-------+
| Measurement conditions  | HS-PDSCH = -3dB,             |       |
|                         |                              |       |
|                         | Ior/Ioc = 10dB, 5dB and 0 dB |       |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+-------+

Table E.5.8A: Level set 4 for HSDPA measurements including test
tolerances

+-------------------------+------------------+-------+
| Parameter               | Unit             | Value |
|                         |                  |       |
| During Measurement      |                  |       |
+-------------------------+------------------+-------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB               | -9.9  |
+-------------------------+------------------+-------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB               | -11.9 |
+-------------------------+------------------+-------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB               | -14.9 |
+-------------------------+------------------+-------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB               | -8,9  |
+-------------------------+------------------+-------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB               | -8.4  |
+-------------------------+------------------+-------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB               | -5    |
+-------------------------+------------------+-------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB               | -6.75 |
+-------------------------+------------------+-------+
| Measurement conditions  | HS-PDSCH = -9dB, |       |
|                         |                  |       |
|                         | Ior/Ioc = 10dB   |       |
+-------------------------+------------------+-------+

Table E.5.8B: Level set 5 for HSDPA measurements including test
tolerances

+-------------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Parameter               | Unit              | Value |
|                         |                   |       |
| During Measurement      |                   |       |
+-------------------------+-------------------+-------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB                | -9.9  |
+-------------------------+-------------------+-------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB                | -11.9 |
+-------------------------+-------------------+-------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB                | -14.9 |
+-------------------------+-------------------+-------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB                | -11,9 |
+-------------------------+-------------------+-------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB                | -8.4  |
+-------------------------+-------------------+-------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB                | -5    |
+-------------------------+-------------------+-------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB                | -5.6  |
+-------------------------+-------------------+-------+
| Measurement conditions  | HS-PDSCH = -12dB, |       |
|                         |                   |       |
|                         | Ior/Ioc = 10dB    |       |
+-------------------------+-------------------+-------+

Table E.5.8C: Level set 6 for HSDPA measurements including test
tolerances

+-------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Parameter               | Unit                        | Value |
|                         |                             |       |
| During Measurement      |                             |       |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB                          | -9.9  |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB                          | -11.9 |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB                          | -14.9 |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB                          | -1,9  |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB                          | -11.1 |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB                          | -11.1 |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB                          | Off   |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
| Measurement conditions  | HS-PDSCH = -2dB,            |       |
|                         |                             |       |
|                         | Ior/Ioc = 4 dB, 6 dB, 8 dB, |       |
|                         | 10 dB, 15 dB and 18 dB      |       |
+-------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+

Table E.5.8D: Level set 7 for HSDPA measurements including test
tolerances

+-------------------------+---------------------+-------+
| Parameter               | Unit                | Value |
|                         |                     |       |
| During Measurement      |                     |       |
+-------------------------+---------------------+-------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB                  | -9.9  |
+-------------------------+---------------------+-------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB                  | -11.9 |
+-------------------------+---------------------+-------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB                  | -14.9 |
+-------------------------+---------------------+-------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB                  | -1,4  |
+-------------------------+---------------------+-------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB                  | -14.2 |
+-------------------------+---------------------+-------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB                  | -14.2 |
+-------------------------+---------------------+-------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB                  | Off   |
+-------------------------+---------------------+-------+
| Measurement conditions  | HS-PDSCH = -1.5 dB, |       |
|                         |                     |       |
|                         | Ior/Ioc = 18 dB     |       |
+-------------------------+---------------------+-------+

Table E.5.9: Application of level sets for measurement

  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Propagation Conditions**   **Reference value**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

                               HS-PDSCH\                                                         T-put ![](media/image52.wmf){width="0.1527777777777778in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} (kbps)\   T-put ![](media/image52.wmf){width="0.1527777777777778in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} (kbps)\   T-put ![](media/image52.wmf){width="0.1527777777777778in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} (kbps)\   T-put ![](media/image52.wmf){width="0.1527777777777778in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} (kbps)\   **T-put** ![](media/image52.wmf){width="0.1527777777777778in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} **(kbps)\   **T-put** ![](media/image52.wmf){width="0.1527777777777778in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} **(kbps)\   **T-put** ![](media/image52.wmf){width="0.1527777777777778in" height="0.1527777777777778in"} **(kbps)\
                               ![](media/image51.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.19375in"} (dB)   ![](media/image53.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}= 0 dB                        ![](media/image53.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}= 10 dB                       ![](media/image53.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}= 6 dB                        ![](media/image53.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}= 15 dB and 18 dB             **![](media/image53.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}**= 5 dB**                        **![](media/image53.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}**= 4 dB and 8 dB**               **![](media/image53.wmf){width="0.375in" height="0.2222222222222222in"}**= 18 dB**

  PA3                          -12                                                               Not tested                                                                                         Level set 5                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -9                                                                Not tested                                                                                         Level set 4                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -6                                                                Level set 1                                                                                        Level set 2                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -3                                                                Level set 3                                                                                        Level set 3                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -2                                                                Not tested                                                                                         Level set 6                                                                                        Level set 6                                                                                        Level set 6                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -1.5                                                              Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Level set 7

  PB3                          -9                                                                Not tested                                                                                         Level set 4                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -6                                                                Level set 2                                                                                        Level set 2                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Level set 2                                                                                              Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -3                                                                Level set 3                                                                                        Level set 3                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Level set 3                                                                                              Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

  VA30                         -9                                                                Not tested                                                                                         Level set 4                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -6                                                                Level set 2                                                                                        Level set 2                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -3                                                                Level set 3                                                                                        Level set 3                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

  VA120                        -9                                                                Not tested                                                                                         Level set 4                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -6                                                                Level set 2                                                                                        Level set 2                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

                               -3                                                                Level set 3                                                                                        Level set 3                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Not tested                                                                                               Not tested

  VA3                          -2                                                                Not tested                                                                                         Level set 6                                                                                        Level set 6                                                                                        Not tested                                                                                         Not tested                                                                                               Level set 6                                                                                              Not tested
  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

E.5.4 Downlink Physical Channels for Transmitter Characteristics with HS-DPCCH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table E.5.10 is applicable for measurements on the Transmitter
Characteristics with HSDPA in clauses 5.2A, 5.2AA, 5.2C, 5.7A, 5.9A,
5.10A, 5.13.1A, 5.13.1AA and 5.13.2A.

Table E.5.10: Test specific downlink physical channels

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----------
  **Parameter**                                                                                                                                                 **Unit**                **Test**
  DPCH                                                                                                                                                          DPCH\_Ec/Ior (dB)       -9
  HS-SCCH\_1                                                                                                                                                    HS-SCCH\_Ec/Ior (dB)    -8
  HS-PDSCH                                                                                                                                                      HS-PDSCH\_Ec/Ior (dB)   -3
  Note: The power levels are selected high enough to keep the DTX reporting ratio very small and to ensure that the radio link is maintained during the test.                           
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------- ----------

E.5A E-DCH with HSDPA DL Physical channels
==========================================

E.5A.0 Downlink Physical Channels for connection set-up
-------------------------------------------------------

Table E.5A.0: Levels for connection setup

+-------------------------+------+-------+
| Parameter               | Unit | Value |
|                         |      |       |
| During Connection setup |      |       |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB   | -10   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB   | -12   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB   | -15   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB   | -5    |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| E-HICH                  | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| E-AGCH                  | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| E-RGCH                  | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB   | -3.1  |
+-------------------------+------+-------+

E.5A.1 Downlink Physical Channels for measurement
-------------------------------------------------

Table E.5A.1 is applicable for tests in subclause 5.2B, 5.2D, 5.2E,
5.9B, 5.10B, 5.13.1AAA, 5.13.2B, and 5.13.2C. Table E.5A.2 is applicable
for tests in subclause 10.2.1, 10.3.1, 10.4.1. and 10.4.1A. Table E.5A.3
is applicable for tests in subclause 10.2.2, 10.3.2 and 10.3.2A.

Table E.5A.1A is applicable for the measurements for DC-HSUPA in
sections 5 and 6, and is valid for both DC-HSDPA cells (DC-HSDPA is
configured).

Table E.5A.1: Downlink Physical Channel parameters for E-DCH the
Transmitter Characteristics tests

+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Unit | Value             | Remark            |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| During            |      |                   |                   |
| Measurement       |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior   | dB   | -10               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CCPCH and       | dB   | -12               |                   |
| SCH\_Ec/Ior       |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior     | dB   | -15               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-PDSCH          | dB   | -3                | During TTIs, in   |
|                   |      |                   | which the         |
|                   |      |                   | HS-PDSCH is not   |
|                   |      |                   | allocated to the  |
|                   |      |                   | UE via HS-SCCH    |
|                   |      |                   | signalling, the   |
|                   |      |                   | HS-PDSCH shall be |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power    |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1        | dB   | -8                | During TTIs, in   |
|                   |      |                   | which the HS-SCCH |
|                   |      |                   | is not allocated  |
|                   |      |                   | to the UE the     |
|                   |      |                   | HS-SCCH shall be  |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power.   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | -10               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-AGCH            | dB   | -20               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-HICH            | dB   | -20               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-RGCH            | dB   | DTX'd             |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | Necessary power   | OCNS interference |
|                   |      | so that total     | consists of 6     |
|                   |      | transmit power    | dedicated data    |
|                   |      | spectral density  | channels as       |
|                   |      | of Node B (Ior)   | specified in      |
|                   |      | adds to one       | table E.5A.4      |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| NOTE 1: For       |      |                   |                   |
| dynamic power     |      |                   |                   |
| correction        |      |                   |                   |
| required to       |      |                   |                   |
| compensate for    |      |                   |                   |
| the presence of   |      |                   |                   |
| transient         |      |                   |                   |
| channels, e.g.    |      |                   |                   |
| control channels, |      |                   |                   |
| a subset of the   |      |                   |                   |
| OCNS DPCH         |      |                   |                   |
| channels may be   |      |                   |                   |
| used.             |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| NOTE 2: For 5.2B, |      |                   |                   |
| 5.9B, 5.10B, the  |      |                   |                   |
| power levels are  |      |                   |                   |
| selected high     |      |                   |                   |
| enough to keep    |      |                   |                   |
| the DTX reporting |      |                   |                   |
| ratio very small  |      |                   |                   |
| and to ensure     |      |                   |                   |
| that the radio    |      |                   |                   |
| link is           |      |                   |                   |
| maintained during |      |                   |                   |
| the test.         |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+

Table E.5A.1A: Downlink Physical Channel parameters for DC-HSUPA
Transmitter and Receiver Characteristics tests

+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Unit | Value             | Remark            |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| During            |      |                   |                   |
| Measurement       |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior   | dB   | -10               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CCPCH and       | dB   | -12               |                   |
| SCH\_Ec/Ior       |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior     | dB   | -15               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-PDSCH          | dB   | -3                | During TTIs, in   |
|                   |      |                   | which the         |
|                   |      |                   | HS-PDSCH is not   |
|                   |      |                   | allocated to the  |
|                   |      |                   | UE via HS-SCCH    |
|                   |      |                   | signalling, the   |
|                   |      |                   | HS-PDSCH shall be |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power    |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1        | dB   | -8                | During TTIs, in   |
|                   |      |                   | which the HS-SCCH |
|                   |      |                   | is not allocated  |
|                   |      |                   | to the UE the     |
|                   |      |                   | HS-SCCH shall be  |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power.   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | -10               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-AGCH            | dB   | -20               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-HICH            | dB   | -20               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-RGCH            | dB   | DTX'd             |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | Necessary power   | OCNS interference |
|                   |      | so that total     | consists of 6     |
|                   |      | transmit power    | dedicated data    |
|                   |      | spectral density  | channels as       |
|                   |      | of Node B (Ior)   | specified in      |
|                   |      | adds to one       | table E.5A.4      |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| NOTE 1: For       |      |                   |                   |
| dynamic power     |      |                   |                   |
| correction        |      |                   |                   |
| required to       |      |                   |                   |
| compensate for    |      |                   |                   |
| the presence of   |      |                   |                   |
| transient         |      |                   |                   |
| channels, e.g.    |      |                   |                   |
| control channels, |      |                   |                   |
| a subset of the   |      |                   |                   |
| OCNS DPCH         |      |                   |                   |
| channels may be   |      |                   |                   |
| used.             |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| NOTE 2: For       |      |                   |                   |
| 5.2BA, 5.9C,      |      |                   |                   |
| 5.10C, the power  |      |                   |                   |
| levels are        |      |                   |                   |
| selected high     |      |                   |                   |
| enough to keep    |      |                   |                   |
| the DTX reporting |      |                   |                   |
| ratio very small  |      |                   |                   |
| and to ensure     |      |                   |                   |
| that the radio    |      |                   |                   |
| link is           |      |                   |                   |
| maintained during |      |                   |                   |
| the test.         |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| NOTE 3: DC-HSDPA  |      |                   |                   |
| shall be          |      |                   |                   |
| configured when   |      |                   |                   |
| testing DC-HSUPA. |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+

Table E.5A.2: Downlink Physical Channel parameters for E-DCH single link
performance tests

+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Unit | Value             | Remark            |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| During            |      |                   |                   |
| Measurement       |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior   | dB   | -10               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CCPCH and       | dB   | -12               |                   |
| SCH\_Ec/Ior       |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior     | dB   | -15               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-PDSCH          | dB   | -3                | During TTIs, in   |
|                   |      |                   | which the         |
|                   |      |                   | HS-PDSCH is not   |
|                   |      |                   | allocated to the  |
|                   |      |                   | UE via HS-SCCH    |
|                   |      |                   | signalling, the   |
|                   |      |                   | HS-PDSCH shall be |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power    |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1        | dB   | -7.5              | During TTIs, in   |
|                   |      |                   | which the HS-SCCH |
|                   |      |                   | is not allocated  |
|                   |      |                   | to the UE the     |
|                   |      |                   | HS-SCCH shall be  |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power.   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | -10               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-AGCH            | dB   | Test specific     | Test-specific     |
|                   |      |                   | value or --20dB   |
|                   |      |                   | is used           |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-HICH            | dB   | Test specific     | Test-specific     |
|                   |      |                   | value or DTX'd is |
|                   |      |                   | used              |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-RGCH            | dB   | Test specific     | Test-specific     |
|                   |      |                   | value or DTX'd is |
|                   |      |                   | used              |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | Necessary power   | OCNS interference |
|                   |      | so that total     | consists of 6     |
|                   |      | transmit power    | dedicated data    |
|                   |      | spectral density  | channels as       |
|                   |      | of Node B (Ior)   | specified in      |
|                   |      | adds to one       | table E.5A.4      |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| NOTE 1: For       |      |                   |                   |
| dynamic power     |      |                   |                   |
| correction        |      |                   |                   |
| required to       |      |                   |                   |
| compensate for    |      |                   |                   |
| the presence of   |      |                   |                   |
| transient         |      |                   |                   |
| channels, e.g.    |      |                   |                   |
| control channels, |      |                   |                   |
| a subset of the   |      |                   |                   |
| OCNS DPCH         |      |                   |                   |
| channels may be   |      |                   |                   |
| used.             |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+

Table E.5A.3: Downlink Physical Channel parameters for E-DCH in
Inter-cell SHO tests

+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Unit | Value             | Remark            |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| During            |      |                   |                   |
| Measurement (Note |      |                   |                   |
| 1)                |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior   | dB   | -10               |                   |
| ~1\ and\ 2~       |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CCPCH and       | dB   | -12               |                   |
| SCH\_             |      |                   |                   |
| Ec/Ior~1\ and\ 2~ |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| PICH              | dB   | -15               |                   |
| \_                |      |                   |                   |
| Ec/Ior~1\ and\ 2~ |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-PDSCH~1~       | dB   | Test specific     | During TTIs, in   |
|                   |      |                   | which the         |
|                   |      |                   | HS-PDSCH is not   |
|                   |      |                   | allocated to the  |
|                   |      |                   | UE via HS-SCCH    |
|                   |      |                   | signalling, the   |
|                   |      |                   | HS-PDSCH shall be |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power    |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_1~1~     | dB   | -7.5              | During TTIs, in   |
|                   |      |                   | which the HS-SCCH |
|                   |      |                   | is not allocated  |
|                   |      |                   | to the UE the     |
|                   |      |                   | HS-SCCH shall be  |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power.   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| DPCH\_            | dB   | -10               |                   |
| Ec/Ior~1\ and\ 2~ |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-AGCH~1~         | dB   | Test specific     | Test-specific     |
|                   |      |                   | value or --20dB   |
|                   |      |                   | is used           |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-HICH ~1~        | dB   | Test specific     | Test-specific     |
|                   |      |                   | value or DTX'd is |
|                   |      |                   | used              |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-RGCH~1~         | dB   | Test specific     | Test-specific     |
|                   |      |                   | value or DTX'd is |
|                   |      |                   | used              |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | Necessary power   | OCNS interference |
| ~1\ and\ 2~       |      | so that total     | consists of 6     |
|                   |      | transmit power    | dedicated data    |
|                   |      | spectral density  | channels as       |
|                   |      | of Node B (Ior)   | specified in      |
|                   |      | adds to one).     | table E.5A.4      |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| NOTE1: Index 1:   |      |                   |                   |
| cell belonging to |      |                   |                   |
| RLS containing    |      |                   |                   |
| the Serving E-DCH |      |                   |                   |
| cell, Index 2:    |      |                   |                   |
| cell belonging to |      |                   |                   |
| RLS not           |      |                   |                   |
| containing the    |      |                   |                   |
| Serving E-DCH     |      |                   |                   |
| cell              |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+

E.5A.2 E-DCH OCNS Definition
----------------------------

The selected channelization codes and relative power levels for OCNS
transmission for E-DCH tests assessment are defined in Table E.5A.4. The
selected codes are designed to have a single length-16 parent code.

Table E.5A.4: OCNS definition for HSDPA receiver testing

  ------------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Channelization Code at SF=128   Relative Level setting (dB)   DPCH Data
  122                             0                             The DPCH data for each channelization code shall be uncorrelated with each other and with any wanted signal over the period of any measurement. For OCNS with transmit diversity the DPCH data sent to each antenna shall be either STTD encoded or generated from uncorrelated sources.
  123                             -2                            
  124                             -2                            
  125                             -4                            
  126                             -1                            
  127                             -3                            
  ------------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE 1: The relative level setting specified in dB refers only to the
relationship between the OCNS channels. The level of the OCNS channels
relative to the Ior of the complete signal is a function of the power of
the other channels in the signal with the intention that the power of
the group of OCNS channels is used to make the total signal add up to 1.

E.5B MBMS DL Physical channels
==============================

E.5B.1 Downlink Physical Channels for connection set-up
-------------------------------------------------------

Table E.5B.1 is applicable for measurements on the Performance
requirements in Clause 11.

Table E.5B.1: Downlink Physical Channels on each radio link

  ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Physical Channel   Power ratio                                                                                 NOTE
  P-CPICH            P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior = -10 dB                                                                    Only P-CPICH is used as phase reference for S-CCPCH carrying MCCH or MTCH.
  P-CCPCH            P-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior = -12 dB                                                                    
  SCH                SCH\_Ec/Ior = -12 dB                                                                        This power shall be divided equally between Primary and Secondary Synchronous channels
  PICH               PICH\_Ec/Ior = -12 dB                                                                       This power shall be high enough such that UE can transition to CELL\_PCH state reliably
  S-CCPCH\_1         S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior = -7 dB                                                                     Specifies the power of the S-CCPCH carrying the FACH/PCH/MCCH
  S-CCPCH\_2         S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior = test dependent                                                            Specifies the power of the S-CCPCH carrying the MTCH
  MICH               MICH\_Ec/Ior = -10 dB                                                                       
  OCNS               Necessary power so that total transmit power spectral density of Node B (Ior) adds to one   OCNS interference consists of 16 dedicated data channels as specified in table E.3.6
  ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

E.5C F-DPCH with HSDPA DL Physical channels
===========================================

E.5C.0 Downlink Physical Channels for connection set-up
-------------------------------------------------------

Table E.5C.0: Levels for connection setup

+-------------------------+------+-------+
| Parameter               | Unit | Value |
|                         |      |       |
| During Connection setup |      |       |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB   | -10   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB   | -12   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB   | -15   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB   | -5    |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| F-DPCH\_Ec/Ior          | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB   | -3.1  |
+-------------------------+------+-------+

E.5C.1 Downlink Physical Channels for measurement
-------------------------------------------------

Table E.5C.1 is applicable for tests in subclause 7.8.5.

Table E.5C.1: Downlink Physical Channel parameters for F-DPCH
performance tests

+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Unit | Value             | Remark            |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| During            |      |                   |                   |
| Measurement       |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior   | dB   | -10               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CCPCH Ec/Ior    | dB   | -12               | Mean power level  |
|                   |      |                   | is shared with    |
|                   |      |                   | SCH.              |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| SCH Ec/Ior        | dB   | -12               | Mean power level  |
|                   |      |                   | is shared with    |
|                   |      |                   | P-CCPCH -- SCH    |
|                   |      |                   | includes P- and   |
|                   |      |                   | S-SCH, with power |
|                   |      |                   | split between     |
|                   |      |                   | both.             |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      |                   | P-SCH code is     |
|                   |      |                   | S\_dl,0 as per    |
|                   |      |                   | \[14\]            |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      |                   | S-SCH pattern is  |
|                   |      |                   | scrambling code   |
|                   |      |                   | group 0           |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior     | dB   | -15               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec/Ior  | dB   | -7                | Specifies         |
|                   |      |                   | fraction of       |
|                   |      |                   | Node-B radiated   |
|                   |      |                   | power transmitted |
|                   |      |                   | when TTI is       |
|                   |      |                   | active (i.e. due  |
|                   |      |                   | to minimum        |
|                   |      |                   | inter-TTI         |
|                   |      |                   | interval). During |
|                   |      |                   | TTIs, in which    |
|                   |      |                   | the HS-PDSCH is   |
|                   |      |                   | not allocated to  |
|                   |      |                   | the UE via        |
|                   |      |                   | HS-SCCH           |
|                   |      |                   | signalling, the   |
|                   |      |                   | HS-PDSCH shall be |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power    |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| H                 | dB   | -10               | Specifies         |
| S-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior |      |                   | fraction of       |
|                   |      |                   | Node-B radiated   |
|                   |      |                   | power transmitted |
|                   |      |                   | when TTI is       |
|                   |      |                   | active (i.e. due  |
|                   |      |                   | to minimum        |
|                   |      |                   | inter-TTI         |
|                   |      |                   | interval). During |
|                   |      |                   | TTIs, in which    |
|                   |      |                   | the HS-SCCH is    |
|                   |      |                   | not allocated to  |
|                   |      |                   | the UE the        |
|                   |      |                   | HS-SCCH shall be  |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power.   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH-2\_Ec/Ior | dB   | DTX'd             | Not present       |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH-3\_Ec/Ior | dB   | DTX'd             | Not present       |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH-4\_Ec/Ior | dB   | DTX'd             | Not present       |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | off               | Not present       |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F-DPCH\_Ec/Ior    | dB   | Test specific     | DL power control  |
|                   |      |                   | is ON so this     |
|                   |      |                   | power varies      |
|                   |      |                   | according to TPC  |
|                   |      |                   | commands received |
|                   |      |                   | from UE.          |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | Necessary power   | OCNS interference |
|                   |      | so that total     | consists of 6     |
|                   |      | transmit power    | dedicated data    |
|                   |      | spectral density  | channels as       |
|                   |      | of Node B (Ior)   | specified in      |
|                   |      | adds to one       | table E.5.5       |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| NOTE 1: For       |      |                   |                   |
| dynamic power     |      |                   |                   |
| correction        |      |                   |                   |
| required to       |      |                   |                   |
| compensate for    |      |                   |                   |
| the presence of   |      |                   |                   |
| transient         |      |                   |                   |
| channels, e.g.    |      |                   |                   |
| control channels, |      |                   |                   |
| a subset of the   |      |                   |                   |
| OCNS DPCH         |      |                   |                   |
| channels may be   |      |                   |                   |
| used.             |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+

E.5D HSDPA and E-DCH DL Physical channels with discontinuous UL DPCCH transmission
==================================================================================

E.5D.0 Downlink Physical Channels for connection set-up
-------------------------------------------------------

Table E.5D.0: Levels for connection setup

+-------------------------+------+-------+
| Parameter               | Unit | Value |
|                         |      |       |
| During Connection setup |      |       |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior         | dB   | -10   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| P-CCPCH and SCH\_Ec/Ior | dB   | -12   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior           | dB   | -15   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| HS-PDSCH                | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| HS-SCCH\_1              | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior            | dB   | -5    |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| F-DPCH\_Ec/Ior          | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior            | dB   | -3.1  |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| E-HICH                  | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| E-AGCH                  | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+
| E-RGCH                  | dB   | off   |
+-------------------------+------+-------+

E.5D.1 Downlink Physical Channels for measurement
-------------------------------------------------

Table E.5D.1 is applicable for the test in subclause 7.13.

Table E.5D.1: Downlink Physical Channel parameters for UE UL power
control operation with discontinuous UL DPCCH transmission test

+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Parameter         | Unit | Value             | Remark            |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
| During            |      |                   |                   |
| Measurement       |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior   | dB   | -10               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| P-CCPCH Ec/Ior    | dB   | -12               | Mean power level  |
|                   |      |                   | is shared with    |
|                   |      |                   | SCH.              |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| SCH Ec/Ior        | dB   | -12               | Mean power level  |
|                   |      |                   | is shared with    |
|                   |      |                   | P-CCPCH -- SCH    |
|                   |      |                   | includes P- and   |
|                   |      |                   | S-SCH, with power |
|                   |      |                   | split between     |
|                   |      |                   | both.             |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      |                   | P-SCH code is     |
|                   |      |                   | S\_dl,0 as per    |
|                   |      |                   | \[14\]            |
|                   |      |                   |                   |
|                   |      |                   | S-SCH pattern is  |
|                   |      |                   | scrambling code   |
|                   |      |                   | group 0           |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| PICH \_Ec/Ior     | dB   | -15               |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-PDSCH\_Ec/Ior  | dB   | -3                | Specifies         |
|                   |      |                   | fraction of       |
|                   |      |                   | Node-B radiated   |
|                   |      |                   | power transmitted |
|                   |      |                   | when TTI is       |
|                   |      |                   | active (i.e. due  |
|                   |      |                   | to minimum        |
|                   |      |                   | inter-TTI         |
|                   |      |                   | interval). During |
|                   |      |                   | TTIs, in which    |
|                   |      |                   | the HS-PDSCH is   |
|                   |      |                   | not allocated to  |
|                   |      |                   | the UE via        |
|                   |      |                   | HS-SCCH           |
|                   |      |                   | signalling, the   |
|                   |      |                   | HS-PDSCH shall be |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power    |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| H                 | dB   | -10               | Specifies         |
| S-SCCH\_1\_Ec/Ior |      |                   | fraction of       |
|                   |      |                   | Node-B radiated   |
|                   |      |                   | power transmitted |
|                   |      |                   | when TTI is       |
|                   |      |                   | active (i.e. due  |
|                   |      |                   | to minimum        |
|                   |      |                   | inter-TTI         |
|                   |      |                   | interval). During |
|                   |      |                   | TTIs, in which    |
|                   |      |                   | the HS-SCCH is    |
|                   |      |                   | not allocated to  |
|                   |      |                   | the UE the        |
|                   |      |                   | HS-SCCH shall be  |
|                   |      |                   | transmitted       |
|                   |      |                   | continuously with |
|                   |      |                   | constant power.   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH-2\_Ec/Ior | dB   | DTX'd             | Not present       |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH-3\_Ec/Ior | dB   | DTX'd             | Not present       |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| HS-SCCH-4\_Ec/Ior | dB   | DTX'd             | Not present       |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| DPCH\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | off               | Not present       |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| F-DPCH\_Ec/Ior    | dB   | -10               | DL power control  |
|                   |      |                   | is OFF so this    |
|                   |      |                   | power does not    |
|                   |      |                   | vary according to |
|                   |      |                   | TPC commands      |
|                   |      |                   | received from UE. |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-AGCH            | dB   | -20 dB            |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-HICH            | dB   | -20 dB            |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| E-RGCH            | dB   | off               | E-RGCH is not     |
|                   |      |                   | configured        |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| OCNS\_Ec/Ior      | dB   | Necessary power   | OCNS interference |
|                   |      | so that total     | consists of 6     |
|                   |      | transmit power    | dedicated data    |
|                   |      | spectral density  | channels as       |
|                   |      | of Node B (Ior)   | specified in      |
|                   |      | adds to one       | table E.5.5       |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
| NOTE 1: For       |      |                   |                   |
| dynamic power     |      |                   |                   |
| correction        |      |                   |                   |
| required to       |      |                   |                   |
| compensate for    |      |                   |                   |
| the presence of   |      |                   |                   |
| transient         |      |                   |                   |
| channels, e.g.    |      |                   |                   |
| control channels, |      |                   |                   |
| a subset of the   |      |                   |                   |
| OCNS DPCH         |      |                   |                   |
| channels may be   |      |                   |                   |
| used.             |      |                   |                   |
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+

E.5E Test Definition for Enhanced Performance Type 3i
=====================================================

This section defines additional test definition for enhanced performance
type 3i including: number of interfering cells and their respective
powers; transmitted code and power characteristics (OCNS) for serving
and interfering cells; and frame offsets for interfering cells. For
DC-HSDPA, DB-DC-HSDPA and 4C-HSDPA requirements, the number of
interfering cells and their respective powers; transmitted code and
power characteristics (OCNS) for serving and interfering cells; and
frame offsets for interfering cells shall be the same for each carrier
frequency. The transmitted OCNS and data signals shall be independent
for each cell.

DIPi = $\frac{{\hat{I}}_{\text{or}(i + 1)}}{I_{\text{oc}}}'$where
*Î*~or*j*~ is the average received power spectral density from the
*j-*th strongest interfering cell (*Î*~or*1*~ is assumed to be the power
spectral density associated with the serving cell), and I~oc~' is given
by$I_{\text{oc}}' = \sum_{j = 2}^{3}{{\hat{I}}_{\text{orj}} + I_{\text{oc}}}$where
Ioc is the average power spectral density of a band limited white noise
source consistent with the definition provided in section 3.4.

Annex K specifies how the serving cell and interfering cells are mapped
to TS 34.108 cells.

E.5E.1 Transmitted code and power characteristics for serving cell
------------------------------------------------------------------

The downlink physical channel code allocations for the serving cell are
specified in Table E.5E.1.1. Ten HS-PDSCH codes have been reserved for
the user of interest, based upon the use of QPSK with FRC H-Set 6. The
other user codes are selected from 46 possible SF = 128 codes. Note not
all 46 of these codes are used, and in addition only 16 codes are used
at a given instance in time. Table E.5E.1.2 summarizes the power
allocations of different channels for the serving cell for 50% and 25%
HS-PDSCH power allocation. Note the power allocations in the last row of
Table E.5E.1.2 are to be split between the HS-SCCH and the other users'
channels in order to ensure proper operation of the HS-SCCH during
testing.

Table E.5E.1.3 summarizes the channelisation codes to be used for the
other users channels (OCNS) along with their respective relative power
allocations in dB when HS-PDSCH is allocated 25% or 50% of the total
power. As shown in Table E.5E.1.3, there are two groups of 16 codes,
which are randomly selected with equal probability on a symbol-by-symbol
basis. This random selection is done per code pair, where a code pair
occupies the same row, as opposed to selecting all of the codes within
group 1 or group 2. This random selection between these two groups is
for purposes of modelling a simplified form of DTX. Note that the
switching time for the symbols with SF = 64 would be the symbol timing
associated with an SF 64 channel, and the switching time for the symbols
with SF = 128 would be the symbol timing for SF = 128 channel. Thus,
there would be two different symbol times dependent upon the SF. For SF
= 64, symbol time \~ 16.67 microseconds, and for SF = 128, symbol time
\~ 33.33 microseconds. Each of these users is also power controlled as
described in section E.5E.3.

The scrambling code of the serving cell is set to 0.

Table E.5E.1.1: Downlink physical channel code allocation

  ------------------------------- -------------------------------------
  Channelization Code at SF=128   Note
  0                               P-CPICH, P-CCPCH and PICH on SF=256
  1                               
  2...6                           5 SF=128 codes free for OCNS
  7                               HS-SCCH on SF=128
  8...87                          10 HS-PDSCH codes at SF=16
  88...96                         9 SF=128 codes free for OCNS
  97                              DPCH on SF=128
  98...127                        30 SF=128 codes free for OCNS
  ------------------------------- -------------------------------------

Table E.5E.1.2: Summary of modelling approach for the serving cell

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Serving cell         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Common channels      | 0.195 (-7.1dB)       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | As specified in      |                      |
|                      | Table E.5.1          |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| HS-PDSCH transport   | H-Set 6              |                      |
| format               |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| HS-PDSCH power       | 0.5                  | 0.25                 |
| allocation           |                      |                      |
| \[E~c~/I~or~\]       | (-3 dB)              | (-6 dB)              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| HS-SCCH + DPCH +     | 0.3049               | 0.5551               |
| Other users'         |                      |                      |
| channels (OCNS)      | (-5.16 dB)           | (-2.56 dB)           |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Other users'         | Other users'         |
|                      | channels set         | channels set         |
|                      | according to Table   | according to Table   |
|                      | E.5E.1.3             | E.5E.1.3             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Note 1: The          |                      |                      |
| repetition cycle     |                      |                      |
| length of the        |                      |                      |
| pre-generated other  |                      |                      |
| users channels       |                      |                      |
| should be at least   |                      |                      |
| 50ms. The            |                      |                      |
| pre-generated        |                      |                      |
| pattern should be    |                      |                      |
| different for each   |                      |                      |
| cell and the cycle   |                      |                      |
| length should not be |                      |                      |
| the same.            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

Table E.5E.1.3: Channelization codes and relative power levels for 25%
and 50% HS-PDSCH power allocations

  -------------------------------- --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------
  Group 1\                         Group 2\                          Relative level setting for 25% and 50% allocation
  Channelization Code, Cch, SF,k   Channelization Code, Cch, SF, k   

                                                                     

  C~ch,128,2~                      C~ch,128,108~                     -1.7

  C~ch,128,3~                      C~ch,128,103~                     -2.7

  C~ch,128,5~                      C~ch,128,109~                     -3.5

  C~ch,128,6~                      C~ch,128,118~                     -0.8

  C~ch,128,90~                     C~ch,128,4~                       -6.2

  C~ch,128,94~                     C~ch,128,123~                     -4.6

  C~ch,128,96~                     C~ch,128,111~                     -2.3

  C~ch,128,98~                     C~ch,128,106~                     -4.1

  C~ch,128,99~                     C~ch,128,100~                     -3.1

  C~ch,128,101~                    C~ch,128,113~                     -5.1

  C~ch,64,52~                      C~ch,64,44~                       0.0

  C~ch,128,110~                    C~ch,128,124~                     -4.6

  C~ch,128,114~                    C~ch,128,115~                     -4.8

  C~ch,128,116~                    C~ch,128,126~                     -4.8

  C~ch,64,60~                      C~ch,64,46~                       -1.1

  C~ch,128,125~                    C~ch,128,95~                      -4.1
  -------------------------------- --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------

NOTE: The relative level settings specified in dB refer only to the
relationship between the OCNS channels. For the serving cell, the sum of
the powers of the OCNS channels plus the power allocated to the HS-SCCH
must add up to the values specified in the last row of Table E.5E.1.2.
For the interfering cells, the sum of the powers of the OCNS channels
must add up to the value shown in the last row of E.5E.2-1.

E.5E.2 Transmitted code and power characteristics for interfering cells
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The downlink physical channel code allocations for the interfering cells
are same as for the serving cell as given in Table E.5E.1.1. The
modelling approach for the interfering cells is summarized in Table
E.5E.2.1. The modelling of the other users' dedicated channels is done
in the same way as in the case of the serving cell except that the HSDPA
power allocation is fixed at 50% and the total power allocated is not
shared with the HS-SCCH. Thus, the two groups of channelisation codes
defined in Table E.5E.1.3 apply, along with the specified relative power
levels.

Table E.5E.2.1: Summary of modelling approach for the interfering cells

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  | Interfering cell(s)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Common channels                  | 0.195 (-7.1dB)                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | As specified in Table E.5.1      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| HS-PDSCH transport format        | Selected randomly from Table     |
|                                  | E.5E.2.2 Independent for each    |
|                                  | interferer.                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| HS-PDSCH power allocation        | 0.5                              |
| \[Ec/Ior\]                       |                                  |
|                                  | (-3 dB)                          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Other users' channels            | 0.3049                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | (-5.16 dB)                       |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Set according to Table E.5E.1.3  |
|                                  | for 50% HS-PDSCH power           |
|                                  | allocation                       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Note 1: The repetition cycle     |                                  |
| length of the pre-generated      |                                  |
| HS-PDSCH and other users         |                                  |
| channels should be at least      |                                  |
| 50ms. The pre-generated pattern  |                                  |
| should be different for each     |                                  |
| cell and the cycle length should |                                  |
| not be the same.                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

NOTE: The values given in decibel are only for information.

The HS-PDSCH transmission for interfering cells is modelled to have
randomly varying modulation and number of codes. The predefined
modulation and number of codes are given in Table E.5E.2.2, with the
actual codes selected per the code allocation given in Table E.5E.1.1.
The transmission from each interfering cell is randomly and
independently selected every HSDPA TTI among the four options given in
Table E.5E.2.2.

The scrambling codes of the interfering cells are set to 16 and 32,
respectively. The frame offsets for the interfering cells are set to
1296 and 2576 chips relative to the serving cell. The scrambling code
value of 16 and the frame offset value of 2576 correspond to the first
interfering cell.

Table E.5E.2.2: Predefined interferer transmission

  ---- ----------------------------------------------
  \#   Used modulation and number of HS-PDSCH codes
  1    QPSK with 5 codes
  2    16QAM with 5 codes
  3    QPSK with 10 codes
  4    16QAM, with 10 codes
  ---- ----------------------------------------------

E.5E.3 Model for power control sequence generation
--------------------------------------------------

In this section the modelling of power control for the other users'
channels is described. There are two powers that are calculated for each
user, i at each slot, n. The first is an interim power calculation,
which develops a power $P_{n}^{i}$ in dB. The second is the actual
applied transmit power, ${\hat{P}}_{n}^{i}$ in the linear domain, which
is normalized such that the total power for all users remains the same
as that originally allocated. The interim power calculation is described
first followed by the applied, normalized power calculation.

The interim power is varied randomly, either by increasing or decreasing
it by 1 dB steps in each slot, i.e.

$P_{n}^{i} = P_{n - 1}^{i} + \Delta$, where
$\Delta \in \left\{ - 1, + 1 \right\}$ (EQ.E.5E.3.1)

The probability of ∆ having a value of +1 for the *i*^th^ user at time
instant *n* can be determined as

$\text{Pr}_{n}^{i}(\Delta\text{=+}1) = 0\text{.}5 - (P_{n - 1}^{i} - P_{0}^{i})\frac{0\text{.}5}{L}$
(EQ.E.5E.3.2)

where, $P_{n - 1}^{i}$ is the interim power at time instant *n*-1 and
$P_{0}^{i}$ is the initial value given in Table E.5E.1.3 after
conversion to dB for each of the two possible HS-PDSCH power
allocations. *L* is a scaling factor which can be used to determine the
range to which the variation of power is confined. The value of *L* is
set to 10, leading to a variance of \~5 dB.

The applied, normalized power is given by

${\hat{P}}_{n}^{i} = \frac{P_{\text{lin},n}^{i}}{\sum_{i}^{}P_{\text{lin},n}^{i}}\sum_{i}^{}P_{\text{lin},0}^{i}$
(EQ.E.5E.3.3)

where is the interim power of the user i at time instant n in the linear
domain, and is the initial value of the i^th^ user's power also in the
linear domain. Each summation is over all 16 possible values for and
where the latter summation is equal to either 0.5551 or 0.3049 for
HS-PDSCH allocations of 25% and 50%, respectively, see Table E.5E.1.3.
The total instantaneous output power of the OCNS is now always equal to
its allocated power. One other subtle point to note is that at each
iteration of interim power generation using (EQ.E.5E.3.1) that the value
of$P_{n - 1}^{i}$ is set to $P_{n}^{i}$of the previous iteration as
opposed to ${\hat{P}}_{n}^{i}$of the previous iteration. In summary, two
sets of power control sequences are developed using (EQ.E.5E.3.1) and
(EQ.E.5E.3.3), respectively, where the interim outputs developed by
(E.1) are used to develop the applied, normalized values described by
(EQ.E.5E.3.3) and to which the actual channel powers are set.

E.5F Test Definition for MultiFlow HSDPA
========================================

This section defines additional test configuration for Multiflow HSDPA
including: number of cells and their respective powers; transmitted code
and power characteristics (OCNS) for the interfering cell; and frame
offsets for assisting serving HS-DSCH cell and interfering cell.

### E.5F.1 Test configuration when 2 cells are configured in Multiflow mode

The relative powers for the serving HS-DSCH cell (Cell 1), the assisting
serving HS-DSCH cell (Cell 2) and additional interfering cell (Cell 3,
if present) are shown in Table E.5F.1. The scrambling code of the
serving HS-DSCH cell is set to 0, that of the assisting serving HS-DSCH
cell is set to 16, and that of the interfering cell is set to 32. The
frame offsets of the assisting serving HS-DSCH cell is set to 2560 chips
and that of the interfering cell is set to 1296 chips relative to the
serving HS-DSCH cell. The downlink physical channel setup for the
serving HS-DSCH cell and assisting serving HS-DSCH cell is shown in
Table E.5F.2 and Table E.5F.3 respectively. The downlink physical
channel setup for the additional interfering cell is shown in Table
E.5F.4.

Table E.5F.1: Relative power of the cells in Multiflow HSDPA test

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Number   | Î~or     | Î~or     | Î~or     | Cell 1   | Cell 2   |
| of       | 1~/I~oc~ | 2~/I~oc~ | 3~/I~oc~ | Geometry | Geometry |
| ad       |          |          |          |          |          |
| ditional |          |          |          |          |          |
| int      |          |          |          |          |          |
| erfering |          |          |          |          |          |
| cell     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 0        | 7.01     | 3.61     | -inf     | 1.83     | -4.19    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 1        | 5.27     | 2.52     | -2.37    | 0.00     | -4.42    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Note 1:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Cell 1   |          |          |          |          |          |
| cor      |          |          |          |          |          |
| responds |          |          |          |          |          |
| to the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| serving  |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-DSCH  |          |          |          |          |          |
| cell,    |          |          |          |          |          |
| Cell 2   |          |          |          |          |          |
| cor      |          |          |          |          |          |
| responds |          |          |          |          |          |
| to the   |          |          |          |          |          |
| a        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ssisting |          |          |          |          |          |
| serving  |          |          |          |          |          |
| HS-DSCH  |          |          |          |          |          |
| cell,    |          |          |          |          |          |
| and Cell |          |          |          |          |          |
| 3 is the |          |          |          |          |          |
| ad       |          |          |          |          |          |
| ditional |          |          |          |          |          |
| int      |          |          |          |          |          |
| erfering |          |          |          |          |          |
| cell.    |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 2:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Cell 1   |          |          |          |          |          |
| Geometry |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |
| by       |          |          |          |          |          |
| **       |          |          |          |          |          |
| Î~or1~/I |          |          |          |          |          |
| ~oc,1~', |          |          |          |          |          |
| where    |          |          |          |          |          |
| I~oc,1~' |          |          |          |          |          |
| =(I~oc~+ |          |          |          |          |          |
| Î~or2~+  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Î~       |          |          |          |          |          |
| or3~)**. |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
| Note 3:  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Cell 2   |          |          |          |          |          |
| Geometry |          |          |          |          |          |
| is       |          |          |          |          |          |
| defined  |          |          |          |          |          |
| by       |          |          |          |          |          |
| **       |          |          |          |          |          |
| Î~or2~/I |          |          |          |          |          |
| ~oc,2~', |          |          |          |          |          |
| where    |          |          |          |          |          |
| I~oc,2~' |          |          |          |          |          |
| =(I~oc~+ |          |          |          |          |          |
| Î~or1~+  |          |          |          |          |          |
| Î~       |          |          |          |          |          |
| or3~)**. |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Table E.5F.2: Downlink physical channels for the serving/secondary
serving HS-DSCH cell in HSDPA receiver testing of Multiflow HSDPA

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Physical       | Parameter      | Value          | Note           |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CPICH        | P              | -10dB          |                |
|                | -CPICH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| P-CCPCH        | P              | -12dB          | Mean power     |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | level is       |
|                |                |                | shared with    |
|                |                |                | SCH.           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| SCH            | SCH\_Ec/Ior    | -12dB          | Mean power     |
|                |                |                | level is       |
|                |                |                | shared with    |
|                |                |                | P-CCPCH -- SCH |
|                |                |                | includes P-    |
|                |                |                | and S-SCH,     |
|                |                |                | with power     |
|                |                |                | split between  |
|                |                |                | both.          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| PICH           | PICH\_Ec/Ior   | -15dB          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| DPCH           | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | Necessary      | 12.2 kbps DL   |
|                |                | power so that  | reference      |
|                |                | total transmit | measurement    |
|                |                | power spectral | channel as     |
|                |                | density of     | defined in     |
|                |                | Node B (Ior)   | Annex C.3.1    |
|                |                | adds to one    |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                | Only for       |                |
|                |                | serving        |                |
|                |                | HS-DSCH cell,  |                |
|                |                | omitted        |                |
|                |                | otherwise      |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-1      | H              | -8 dB for      |                |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior | serving        |                |
|                |                | HS-DSCH cell,  |                |
|                |                | otherwise      |                |
|                |                | necessary      |                |
|                |                | power so that  |                |
|                |                | total transmit |                |
|                |                | power spectral |                |
|                |                | density of     |                |
|                |                | Node B (Ior)   |                |
|                |                | adds to one    |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-2      | H              | DTX'd          | No signalling  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | scheduled, or  |
|                |                |                | power          |
|                |                |                | radiated, on   |
|                |                |                | this HS-SCCH,  |
|                |                |                | but signalled  |
|                |                |                | to the UE as   |
|                |                |                | present.       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-SCCH-3      | H              | DTX'd          | As HS-SCCH-2.  |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| HS-PDSCH       | HS             | Test-specific  |                |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

Table E.5F.3: Downlink physical channels for the assisting
serving/secondary serving HS-DSCH cell in HSDPA receiver testing of
Multiflow HSDPA

  ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Physical Channel   Parameter          Value                                                                                       Note
  P-CPICH            P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior    -10dB                                                                                       
  P-CCPCH            P-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior    -12dB                                                                                       Mean power level is shared with SCH.
  SCH                SCH\_Ec/Ior        -12dB                                                                                       Mean power level is shared with P-CCPCH -- SCH includes P- and S-SCH, with power split between both.
  PICH               PICH\_Ec/Ior       -15dB                                                                                       
  DPCH               DPCH\_Ec/Ior       DTX'd                                                                                       Omitted
  HS-SCCH-1          HS-SCCH\_Ec/Ior    Necessary power so that total transmit power spectral density of Node B (Ior) adds to one   
  HS-SCCH-2          HS-SCCH\_Ec/Ior    DTX'd                                                                                       No signalling scheduled, or power radiated, on this HS-SCCH, but signalled to the UE as present.
  HS-SCCH-3          HS-SCCH\_Ec/Ior    DTX'd                                                                                       As HS-SCCH-2.
  HS-PDSCH           HS-PDSCH\_Ec/Ior   Test-specific                                                                               
  ------------------ ------------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table E.5F.4: Downlink physical channels for the additional interfering
cell in Multiflow HSDPA testing

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  | Interfering cell                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Common channels                  | 0.195 (-7.1dB)                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Same as Table E.5F.2             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| HS-SCCH\_Ec/Ior                  | -12 dB                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| HS-PDSCH transport format        | Selected randomly from Table     |
|                                  | E.5E.2.1                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| HS-PDSCH power allocation        | Necessary power so that total    |
| \[E~c~/I~or~\]                   | transmit power spectral density  |
|                                  | of Node B (Ior) adds to one      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

### E.5F.2 Test configuration when 3 cells are configured in Multiflow mode

When 3 cells are configured in Multiflow mode, the test configuration in
E.5F.1 shall be duplicated for each frequency according to Table E.5F.2
and Table E.5F.3. The downlink physical channel setup for the serving
HS-DSCH cell, assisting serving HS-DSCH cell and the secondary serving
HS-DSCH cell is shown in Table E.5F.6. Cell 2 on the carrier of the
secondary serving HS-DSCH cell becomes an interfering cell and does not
participate in Multiflow mode. The downlink physical channel setup of
Cell 2 on the carrier of the secondary serving HS-DSCH cell shall follow
Table E.5F.3.

Table E.5F.6: Test configuration when 3 cells are configured in
Multiflow mode

  -------------------------------- ---------------------------
                                   Setting
  Serving HS-DSCH cell             According to Table E.5F.2
  Assisting serving HS-DSCH cell   According to Table E.5F.3
  Secondary serving HS-DSCH cell   According to Table E.5F.2
  -------------------------------- ---------------------------

### E.5F.3 Test configuration when 4 cells are configured in Multiflow mode

When 4 cells are configured in Multiflow mode, the test configuration in
E.5F.1 shall be duplicated for each frequency according to Table E.5F.2
and Table E.5F.3. The downlink physical channel setup for the serving
HS-DSCH cell, assisting serving HS-DSCH cell, the secondary serving
HS-DSCH cell and the assisting secondary serving HS-DSCH cell is shown
in Table E.5F.7.

Table E.5F.7: Test configuration when 3 cells are configured in
Multiflow mode

  ------------------------------------------ ---------------------------
                                             Setting
  Serving HS-DSCH cell                       According to Table E.5F.2
  Assisting serving HS-DSCH cell             According to Table E.5F.3
  Secondary serving HS-DSCH cell             According to Table E.5F.2
  Assisting secondary serving HS-DSCH cell   According to Table E.5F.3
  ------------------------------------------ ---------------------------

E.6 Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation (This clause is informative)
===========================================================================

E.6.1 Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for non-HSDPA test cases
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table E.6.1.1 shows the downlink code allocation for non-HSDPA test
cases. The numbers in the code columns indicate the code number with the
respective spreading factor (SF). The Note column refers to
specifications where the code allocation is defined. Only the system
configuration according to TS 34.108 \[3\] section 6.10b is used for RF
testing. The codes used for the WCDMA interferer as defined in Table
E.4.1 are not included in the table below because the WCDMA interferer
is on another carrier. The S-CCPCH has been moved from code 1 to code 2
(SF=64) in order to resolve the code conflict with OCNS DPCH.

Table E.6.1.1: Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for RF testing
(non-HSDPA)

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Code with      | Code with      | Code with      | Note           |
| SF=256         | SF=128         | SF=64          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0: P-CPICH     | 0: -           | 0: -           | TS 25.213; TS  |
|                |                |                | 34.108 \[3\]:  |
|                |                |                | 6.1.4          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1: P-CCPCH     |                |                | TS 25.213      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2: PICH        | 1: -           |                | TS 34.108      |
|                |                |                | \[3\]: 6.1.0b  |
|                |                |                | (SIB5)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 3: AICH        |                |                | TS 34.108      |
|                |                |                | \[3\]: 6.1.0b  |
|                |                |                | (SIB5)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 4: -           | 2: OCNS DPCH   | 1: -           | OCNS:          |
|                |                |                | TS34.121:      |
|                |                |                | Table E.3.6    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 5: -           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 6: -           | 3: S-CCPCH     |                | 3: TS 34.121:  |
|                |                |                | TC 7.11 (PCH)  |
|                |                |                | only           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7: -           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8: -           | 4: -           | 2: S-CCPCH     | S-CCPCH for RF |
|                |                |                | testing TS     |
|                |                |                | 34.108 \[3\]:  |
|                |                |                | 7.3 (SIB5), TS |
|                |                |                | 34.121: TC     |
|                |                |                | 7.11 (FACH)    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9: -           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10: -          | 5: -           |                | 5: TS 34.108   |
|                |                |                | \[3\]: 6.1.2   |
|                |                |                | (CTCH)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 11: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 12: -          | 6: -           | 3: -           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 13: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 14: -          | 7: -           |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 15: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 16:            | 8: -           | 4: -           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 17: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 18: -          | 9: -           |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 19: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 20: -          | 10: -          | 5: -           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 21: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 22: -          | 11: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 23: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 24-31: -       | 12-15: -       | 6-7: -         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 32: -          | 16: -          | 8: -           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 33: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 34: -          | 17: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 35: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 36-43: -       | 18-21: -       | 9-10: -        |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 44: -          | 22: -          | 11: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 45: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 46: -          | 23: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 47: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 48-59: -       | 24-29: -       | 12-14: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 60: -          | 30: -          | 15: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 61: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 62: -          | 31: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 63: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 64-75: -       | 32-37: -       | 16-18: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 76: -          | 38: OCNS DPCH  | 19: -          | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 77: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 78: -          | 39: -          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 79: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 80-91: -       | 40-45: -       | 20-22: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 92: -          | 46: -          | 23: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 93: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 94: -          | 47: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 95: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 96-107: -      | 48-53: -       | 24-26: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 108: -         | 54: -          | 27: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 109: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 110: -         | 55: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 111: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 112-123: -     | 56-61: -       | 28-30: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 124: -         | 62: OCNS DPCH  | 31: -          | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 125: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 126: -         | 63: -          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 127: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 128-135: -     | 64-67: -       | 32-33: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 136: -         | 68: -          | 34: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 137: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 138: -         | 69: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 139: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 140-155: -     | 70-77: -       | 35-38: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 156: -         | 78: OCNS DPCH  | 39: -          | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 157: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 158: -         | 79: -          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 159: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 160-167: -     | 80-83: -       | 40-41: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 168: -         | 84: -          | 42: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 169: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 170: -         | 85: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 171: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 172-187: -     | 86-93: -       | 43-46: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 188: -         | 94: OCNS DPCH  | 47: -          | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 189: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 190: -         | 95: -          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 191: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 192: DCH SRB   | 96: DCH 12.2   | 48: -          | TS 34.108      |
|                |                |                | \[3\]: 9.2.1   |
|                |                |                | (DCH SRB and   |
|                |                |                | 12.2);         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | DCH 64:        |
|                |                |                | SF32-Code24,   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | DCH 144:       |
|                |                |                | SF16-Code12,   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | DCH 384:       |
|                |                |                | SF8-Code6      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 193: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 194: -         | 97: -          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 195: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 196-223: -     | 98-111: -      | 49-55: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 224: -         | 112: -         | 56: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 225: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 226: -         | 113: OCNS DPCH |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 227: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 228-235: -     | 114-117: -     | 57-58: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 236: -         | 118: -         | 59: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 237: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 238: -         | 119: OCNS DPCH |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 239: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 240-59: -      | 120-123: -     | 60-61: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 248: -         | 124: -         | 62: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 249: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 250: -         | 125: OCNS DPCH |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 251: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 252-255: -     | 126-127: -     | 63: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

E.6.2 Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for HSDPA test cases
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Tables E.6.2.1, E.6.2.2, E.6.2.3 and E.6.2.4 show the downlink code
allocation for HSDPA test cases. Table E.6.2.1 shows the complete
downlink code tree for spreading factors 16, 32 and 64. Table E.6.2.2
shows details of the downlink code tree for SF=16 code=0 with spreading
factors 64, 128 and 256. Tables E.6.1.1 and E.6.1.2 should be used for
HSDPA test cases for UE categories 1-8 and 11-12. Tables E.6.2.3 and
E.6.2.4 show the complete downlink code trees to be used for HSDPA test
case for UE categories 9-10 and 13-20, with the exception of test cases
testing the control channel performance, for which Tables E.6.2.1 and
E.6.2.2 should be used. The numbers in the code columns indicate the
code number with the respective spreading factor (SF). The Note column
refers to specifications where the code allocation is defined.

Table E.6.2.1: HSDPA Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for RF
testing

  ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Code with SF=64   Code with SF=32   Code with SF=16   Note
  0: -              0: -              0: -              P-CPICH, P-CCPCH, PICH, AICH on SF256
  1: -                                                  HS-SCCH1 and HS-SCCH2 on SF128
  2: S-CCPCH        1: -                                S-CCPCH: TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b
  3: -                                                  HS-SCCH3 and HS-SCCH4 on SF128
  4: -              2: -              1: HS-PDSCH       1st HS-PDSCH code
  5: -                                                  
  6: -              3: -                                
  7: -                                                  
  8: -              4: -              2: HS-PDSCH       2nd HS-PDSCH code
  9: -                                                  
  10: -             5: -                                
  11: -                                                 
  12: -             6: -              3: HS-PDSCH       3rd HS-PDSCH code
  13: -                                                 
  14: -             7: -                                
  15: -                                                 
  16: -             8: -              4: HS-PDSCH       4th HS-PDSCH code
  17: -                                                 
  18: -             9: -                                
  19: -                                                 
  20: -             10: -             5: HS-PDSCH       5th HS-PDSCH code
  21: -                                                 
  22: -             11: -                               
  23: -                                                 
  24: -             12: -             6: HS-PDSCH       6th HS-PDSCH code
  25: -                                                 
  26: -             13: -                               
  27: -                                                 
  28: -             14: -             7: HS-PDSCH       7th HS-PDSCH code
  29: -                                                 
  30: -             15: -                               
  31: -                                                 
  32: -             16: -             8: HS-PDSCH       8th HS-PDSCH code
  33: -                                                 
  34: -             17: -                               
  35: -                                                 
  36: -             18: -             9: HS-PDSCH       9th HS-PDSCH code
  37: -                                                 
  38: -             19: -                               
  39: -                                                 
  40: -             20: -             10: HS-PDSCH      10th HS-PDSCH code
  41: -                                                 
  42: -             21: -                               
  43: -                                                 
  44: -             22: -             11: -             
  45: -                                                 
  46: -             23: -                               
  47: -                                                 
  48: -             24: -             12: -             RMC12.2 on code 96 (SF128), the SRB standalone used during call setup on code 192 (SF256) (TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1)
  49: -                                                 
  50: -             25: -                               
  51: -                                                 
  52: -             26: -             13: -             
  53: -                                                 
  54: -             27: -                               
  55: -                                                 
  56: -             28: -             14: -             
  57: -                                                 
  58: -             29: -                               
  59: -                                                 
  60: -             30: -             15: -             OCNS DPCH on codes 122-127 (SF128) (Table E.5.5)
  61: -                                                 
  62: -             31: -                               
  63: -                                                 
  ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table E.6.2.2: HSDPA Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for
SF=16 code=0

  ------------------ ------------------ ----------------- -----------------------------------------------
  Code with SF=256   Code with SF=128   Code with SF=64   Note
  0: P-CPICH         0: -               0: -              TS 25.213; 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.4; 34.121: E.4.2
  1: P-CCPCH                                              TS 25.213; 34.121: E.4.2
  2: PICH            1: -                                 TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b (SIB5)
  3: AICH                                                 TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b (SIB5)
  4: -               2: HS-SCCH1        1: -              TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message
  5: -                                                    
  6: -               3: HS-SCCH2                          TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message
  7: -                                                    
  8: -               4: -               2: S-CCPCH        S-CCPCH: TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b (SIB5)
  9: -                                                    
  10: -              5: -                                 
  11: -                                                   
  12: -              6: HS-SCCH3        3: -              TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message
  13: -                                                   
  14: -              7: HS-SCCH4                          TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message
  15: -                                                   
  ------------------ ------------------ ----------------- -----------------------------------------------

Table E.6.2.3: HSDPA Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for RF
testing for UE categories 9-10 and 13-20 test cases, except control
channel performance test cases

  ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Code with SF=64   Code with SF=32   Code with SF=16   Note
  0: -              0: -              0: -              P-CPICH, P-CCPCH, PICH, AICH on SF256
  1: -                                                  HS-SCCH1 and HS-SCCH2 on SF128
  2: S-CCPCH        1: -                                S-CCPCH: TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b
  3: -                                                  OCNS DPCH on code 6 (SF128) (Table E.5.5A), RMC12.2 on code 7 (SF128) (TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RRC Connection Setup message (Transition to CELL\_DCH) with exceptions in Annex I), the SRB standalone used during call setup on code 14 (SF256) (TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message (HSDPA) with exceptions in Annex I)
  4: -              2: -              1: HS-PDSCH       1^st^ HS-PDSCH code
  5: -                                                  
  6: -              3: -                                
  7: -                                                  
  8: -              4: -              2: HS-PDSCH       2nd HS-PDSCH code
  9: -                                                  
  10: -             5: -                                
  11: -                                                 
  12: -             6: -              3: HS-PDSCH       3^rd^ HS-PDSCH code
  13: -                                                 
  14: -             7: -                                
  15: -                                                 
  16: -             8: -              4: HS-PDSCH       4^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  17: -                                                 
  18: -             9: -                                
  19: -                                                 
  20: -             10: -             5: HS-PDSCH       5^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  21: -                                                 
  22: -             11: -                               
  23: -                                                 
  24: -             12: -             6: HS-PDSCH       6^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  25: -                                                 
  26: -             13: -                               
  27: -                                                 
  28: -             14: -             7: HS-PDSCH       7^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  29: -                                                 
  30: -             15: -                               
  31: -                                                 
  32: -             16: -             8: HS-PDSCH       8^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  33: -                                                 
  34: -             17: -                               
  35: -                                                 
  36: -             18: -             9: HS-PDSCH       9^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  37: -                                                 
  38: -             19: -                               
  39: -                                                 
  40: -             20: -             10: HS-PDSCH      10^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  41: -                                                 
  42: -             21: -                               
  43: -                                                 
  44: -             22: -             11: HS-PDSCH      11^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  45: -                                                 
  46: -             23: -                               
  47: -                                                 
  48: -             24: -             12: HS-PDSCH      12^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  49: -                                                 
  50: -             25: -                               
  51: -                                                 
  52: -             26: -             13: HS-PDSCH      13^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  53: -                                                 
  54: -             27: -                               
  55: -                                                 
  56: -             28: -             14: HS-PDSCH      14^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  57: -                                                 
  58: -             29: -                               
  59: -                                                 
  60: -             30: -             15: HS-PDSCH      15^th^ HS-PDSCH code
  61: -                                                 
  62: -             31: -                               
  63: -                                                 
  ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table E.6.2.4: HSDPA Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for
SF=16 code=0 for UE categories 9-10 and 13-20 test cases, except control
channel performance test cases

  --------------------------- ------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Code with SF=256            Code with SF=128   Code with SF=64   Note
  0: P-CPICH                  0: -               0: -              TS 25.213; 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.4; 34.121: E.4.2
  1: P-CCPCH                                                       TS 25.213; 34.121: E.4.2
  2: PICH                     1: -                                 TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b (SIB5)
  3: AICH                                                          TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b (SIB5)
  4: -                        2: HS-SCCH1        1: -              TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message (HSDPA) with exceptions in Annex I
  5: -                                                             
  6: -                        3: HS-SCCH2                          TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message (HSDPA) with exceptions in Annex I
  7: -                                                             
  8: -                        4: -               2: S-CCPCH        S-CCPCH: TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b (SIB5)
  9: -                                                             
  10: -                       5: -                                 
  11: -                                                            
  12: -                       6: OCNS DPCH       3: -              OCNS DPCH on code 6 (SF128) (Table E.5.5A)
  13: -                                                            
  14: SRB during call setup   7: RMC 12.2                          RMC12.2 on code 7 (SF128) (TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RRC Connection Setup message (Transition to CELL\_DCH) with exceptions in Annex I), the SRB standalone used during call setup on code 14 (SF256) (TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message (HSDPA) with exceptions in Annex I)
  15: -                                                            
  --------------------------- ------------------ ----------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

E.6.3 Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for E-DCH test cases
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Tables E.6.3.1 and E.6.3.2 show the downlink code allocation for E-DCH
test cases. Table E.6.3.1 shows the complete downlink code tree for
spreading factors 16, 32 and 64. Table E.6.3.2 shows details of the
downlink code tree for SF=16 code=0 with spreading factors 64, 128 and
256. The numbers in the code columns indicate the code number with the
respective spreading factor (SF). The Note column refers to
specifications where the code allocation is defined.

Table E.6.3.1: E-DCH Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for RF
testing

  ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Code with SF=64   Code with SF=32   Code with SF=16   Note
  0: -              0: -              0: -              P-CPICH, P-CCPCH, PICH, AICH on SF256
  1: -                                                  HS-SCCH1 and HS-SCCH2 on SF128
  2: S-CCPCH        1: -                                S-CCPCH: TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b
  3: -                                                  E-HICH/E-RGCH on SF128, E-AGCH on SF256
  4: -              2: -              1: HS-PDSCH       1st HS-PDSCH code
  5: -                                                  
  6: -              3: -                                
  7: -                                                  
  8: -              4: -              2: HS-PDSCH       2nd HS-PDSCH code
  9: -                                                  
  10: -             5: -                                
  11: -                                                 
  12: -             6: -              3: HS-PDSCH       3rd HS-PDSCH code
  13: -                                                 
  14: -             7: -                                
  15: -                                                 
  16: -             8: -              4: HS-PDSCH       4th HS-PDSCH code
  17: -                                                 
  18: -             9: -                                
  19: -                                                 
  20: -             10: -             5: HS-PDSCH       5th HS-PDSCH code
  21: -                                                 
  22: -             11: -                               
  23: -                                                 
  24: -             12: -             6: -              
  25: -                                                 
  26: -             13: -                               
  27: -                                                 
  28: -             14: -             7: -              
  29: -                                                 
  30: -             15: -                               
  31: -                                                 
  32: -             16: -             8: -              
  33: -                                                 
  34: -             17: -                               
  35: -                                                 
  36: -             18: -             9: -              
  37: -                                                 
  38: -             19: -                               
  39: -                                                 
  40: -             20: -             10: -             
  41: -                                                 
  42: -             21: -                               
  43: -                                                 
  44: -             22: -             11: -             
  45: -                                                 
  46: -             23: -                               
  47: -                                                 
  48: -             24: -             12: -             RMC12.2 on code 96 (SF128), the SRB standalone used during call setup on code 192 (SF256) (TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1)
  49: -                                                 
  50: -             25: -                               
  51: -                                                 
  52: -             26: -             13: -             
  53: -                                                 
  54: -             27: -                               
  55: -                                                 
  56: -             28: -             14: -             
  57: -                                                 
  58: -             29: -                               
  59: -                                                 
  60: -             30: -             15: -             OCNS DPCH on codes 122-127 (SF128)
  61: -                                                 
  62: -             31: -                               
  63: -                                                 
  ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table E.6.2.2: E-DCH Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for
SF=16 code=0

  ------------------ ------------------ ----------------- -----------------------------------------------
  Code with SF=256   Code with SF=128   Code with SF=64   Note
  0: P-CPICH         0: -               0: -              TS 25.213; 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.4; 34.121: E.4.2
  1: P-CCPCH                                              TS 25.213; 34.121: E.4.2
  2: PICH            1: -                                 TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b (SIB5)
  3: AICH                                                 TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b (SIB5)
  4: -               2: HS-SCCH1        1: -              TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message
  5: -                                                    
  6: -               3: HS-SCCH2                          TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message
  7: -                                                    
  8: -               4: -               2: S-CCPCH        S-CCPCH: TS 34.108 \[3\]: 6.1.0b (SIB5)
  9: -                                                    
  10: -              5: -                                 
  11: -                                                   
  12: -              6: E-HICH/E-RGCH   3: -              TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message
  13: -                                                   
  14: E-AGCH         7: -                                 TS 34.108 \[3\]: 9.2.1 RB Setup message
  15: -                                                   
  ------------------ ------------------ ----------------- -----------------------------------------------

E.6.4 Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for MBMS test cases
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Table E.6.4.1 show the details of downlink code allocation for MBMS test
cases. The numbers in the Code columns indicate the code number with the
respective spreading factor (SF). The Note column refers to
specifications where the code allocation is defined.

Table E.6.4.1: MBMS Downlink Physical Channels Code Allocation for RF
testing

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Code with      | Code with      | Code with      | Note           |
| SF=256         | SF=128         | SF=64          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 0: P-CPICH     | 0: -           | 0: -           | TS 25.213; TS  |
|                |                |                | 34.108 \[3\]:  |
|                |                |                | 6.1.4          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 1: P-CCPCH     |                |                | TS 25.213      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 2: PICH        | 1: -           |                | TS 34.108      |
|                |                |                | \[3\]: 6.1.0b  |
|                |                |                | (SIB5)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 3: AICH        |                |                | TS 34.108      |
|                |                |                | \[3\]: 6.1.0b  |
|                |                |                | (SIB5)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 4: -           | 2: OCNS DPCH   | 1: -           | OCNS:          |
|                |                |                | TS34.121:      |
|                |                |                | Table E.3.6    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 5: -           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 6: -           | 3: -           |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7: MICH        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8: -           | 4: -           | 2: S-CCPCH     | 2: TS 34.108   |
|                |                |                | \[3\]: 6.1.0b  |
|                |                |                | (SIB5)         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9: -           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10: -          | 5: -           |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 11: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 12: -          | 6: S-CCPCH     | 3: -           | 6: TS 34.121:  |
|                |                |                | TC 8.3.5.4     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 13: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 14: -          | 7: -           |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 15: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 16:            | 8: -           | 4: -           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 17: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 18: -          | 9: -           |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 19: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 20: -          | 10: -          | 5: -           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 21: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 22: -          | 11: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 23: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 24-31: -       | 12-15: -       | 6-7: -         |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 32: -          | 16: -          | 8: -           |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 33: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 34: -          | 17: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 35: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 36-43: -       | 18-21: -       | 9-10: -        |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 44: -          | 22: -          | 11: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 45: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 46: -          | 23: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 47: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 48-59: -       | 24-29: -       | 12-14: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 60: -          | 30: -          | 15: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 61: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 62: -          | 31: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 63: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 64-75: -       | 32-37: -       | 16-18: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 76: -          | 38: OCNS DPCH  | 19: -          | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 77: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 78: -          | 39: -          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 79: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 80-91: -       | 40-45: -       | 20-22: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 92: -          | 46: -          | 23: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 93: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 94: -          | 47: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 95: -          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 96-107: -      | 48-53: -       | 24-26: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 108: -         | 54: -          | 27: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 109: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 110: -         | 55: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 111: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 112-123: -     | 56-61: -       | 28-30: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 124: -         | 62: OCNS DPCH  | 31: -          | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 125: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 126: -         | 63: -          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 127: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 128-135: -     | 64-67: -       | 32-33: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 136: -         | 68: -          | 34: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 137: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 138: -         | 69: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 139: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 140-155: -     | 70-77: -       | 35-38: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 156: -         | 78: OCNS DPCH  | 39: -          | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 157: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 158: -         | 79: -          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 159: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 160-167: -     | 80-83: -       | 40-41: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 168: -         | 84: -          | 42: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 169: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 170: -         | 85: OCNS DPCH  |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 171: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 172-187: -     | 86-93: -       | 43-46: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 188: -         | 94: OCNS DPCH  | 47: -          | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 189: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 190: -         | 95: -          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 191: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 192: -         | 96: -          | 48: -          | TS 34.121: TC  |
|                |                |                | 8.3.5.4,       |
|                |                |                | 8.3            |
|                |                |                | .6.3,11.2(Test |
|                |                |                | 2)             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | MTCH 256kbps:  |
|                |                |                | SF8-Code6      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | TS 34.121: TC  |
|                |                |                | 11.2(Test 1    |
|                |                |                | and 3), 11.3   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | MTCH 128kbps:  |
|                |                |                | SF16-Code12    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 193: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 194: -         | 97: -          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 195: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 196-223: -     | 98-111: -      | 49-55: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 224: -         | 112: -         | 56: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 225: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 226: -         | 113: OCNS DPCH |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 227: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 228-235: -     | 114-117: -     | 57-58: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 236: -         | 118: -         | 59: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 237: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 238: -         | 119: OCNS DPCH |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 239: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 240-59: -      | 120-123: -     | 60-61: -       |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 248: -         | 124: -         | 62: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 249: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 250: -         | 125: OCNS DPCH |                | OCNS: TS       |
|                |                |                | 34.121: E.3.6  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 251: -         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 252-255: -     | 126-127: -     | 63: -          |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

######## Annex F (normative): General test conditions and declarations

The requirements of this clause apply to all applicable tests in the
present document.

Many of the tests in the present document measure a parameter relative
to a value that is not fully specified in the UE specifications. For
these tests, the Minimum Requirement is determined relative to a nominal
value specified by the manufacturer.

When specified in a test, the manufacturer shall declare the nominal
value of a parameter, or whether an option is supported.

In all the relevant clauses in this clause all Bit Error Ratio (BER),
Block Error Ratio (BLER), False transmit format Detection Ratio
**(**FDR) measurements shall be carried out according to the general
rules for statistical testing in clause F.6.

For operating band XXII, the Test Tolerances may not be valid since some
Test System uncertainties are changed for frequencies above 3000MHz. The
Test Tolerances for those specific bands are therefore For Further Study
\[FFS\].

F.1 Acceptable uncertainty of Test System
=========================================

The maximum acceptable uncertainty of the Test System is specified below
for each test, where appropriate. The Test System shall enable the
stimulus signals in the test case to be adjusted to within the specified
range, and the equipment under test to be measured with an uncertainty
not exceeding the specified values. All ranges and uncertainties are
absolute values, and are valid for a confidence level of 95 %, unless
otherwise stated.

A confidence level of 95 % is the measurement uncertainty tolerance
interval for a specific measurement that contains 95 % of the
performance of a population of test equipment.

For RF tests it should be noted that the uncertainties in clause F.1
apply to the Test System operating into a nominal 50 ohm load and do not
include system effects due to mismatch between the DUT and the Test
System.

F.1.1 Measurement of test environments
--------------------------------------

The measurement accuracy of the UE test environments defined in annex G,
Test environments shall be.

\- Pressure ±5 kPa.

\- Temperature ±2 degrees.

\- Relative Humidity ±5 %.

\- DC Voltage ±1,0 %.

\- AC Voltage ±1,5 %.

\- Vibration 10 %.

\- Vibration frequency 0,1 Hz.

The above values shall apply unless the test environment is otherwise
controlled and the specification for the control of the test environment
specifies the uncertainty for the parameter.

F.1.2 Measurement of transmitter
--------------------------------

Table F.1.2: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for transmitter tests

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Clause               | Maximum Test System  | Derivation of Test   |
|                      | Uncertainty          | System Uncertainty   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2 Maximum Output   | ±0,7 dB              |                      |
| Power                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2A Maximum Output  | ±0,7 dB              |                      |
| Power with HS-DPCCH  |                      |                      |
| (Release 5 only)     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2AA Maximum Output | ±0,7 dB              |                      |
| Power with HS-DPCCH  |                      |                      |
| (Release 6 and       |                      |                      |
| later)               |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2AB Maximum Output | ±0,7 dB              |                      |
| Power for UL OLTD    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2B Maximum Output  | ±0,7 dB              |                      |
| Power with HS-DPCCH  |                      |                      |
| and E-DCH            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2BA UE Maximum     | ±0,7 dB              | The accuracy over    |
| Output Power for     |                      | two carriers is the  |
| DC-HSUPA (QPSK)      |                      | same as over one     |
|                      |                      | carrier              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2BB UE Maximum     | ±0,7 dB              | The accuracy over    |
| Output Power for     |                      | two carriers is the  |
| DC-HSUPA (16QAM)     |                      | same as over one     |
|                      |                      | carrier              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2BC Maximum Output | ±0,7 dB              | The accuracy over    |
| Power with HS-DPCCH  |                      | two carriers is the  |
| and E-DCH for UL     |                      | same as over one     |
| OLTD                 |                      | carrier              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2C UE relative     | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | This accuracy is     |
| code domain power    | CDP ± 0.2 dB         | based on the         |
| accuracy             |                      | linearity of the     |
|                      | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  | code domain power    |
|                      | CDP ± 0.3 dB         | measurement of the   |
|                      |                      | test equipment.      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2CA UE relative    | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | This accuracy is     |
| code domain power    | CDP ± 0.2 dB         | based on the         |
| accuracy for UL OLTD |                      | linearity of the     |
|                      | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  | code domain power    |
|                      | CDP ± 0.3 dB         | measurement of the   |
|                      |                      | test equipment.      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2D UE Relative     | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | This accuracy is     |
| Code Domain Power    | CDP ± 0.2 dB         | based on the         |
| Accuracy with        |                      | linearity of the     |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH   | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  | code domain power    |
|                      | CDP ± 0.3 dB         | measurement of the   |
|                      |                      | test equipment.      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2DA UE Relative    | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | This accuracy is     |
| Code Domain Power    | CDP ± 0.2 dB         | based on the         |
| Accuracy for         |                      | linearity of the     |
| DC-HSUPA with QPSK   | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  | code domain power    |
|                      | CDP ± 0.3 dB         | measurement of the   |
|                      |                      | test equipment.      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2DB UE Relative    | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | This accuracy is     |
| Code Domain Power    | CDP ± 0.2 dB         | based on the         |
| Accuracy for         |                      | linearity of the     |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH   | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  | code domain power    |
| for UL OLTD          | CDP ± 0.3 dB         | measurement of the   |
|                      |                      | test equipment.      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2E UE Relative     | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | This accuracy is     |
| Code Domain Power    | CDP ± 0.2 dB         | based on the         |
| Accuracy for         |                      | linearity of the     |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH   | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  | code domain power    |
| with 16QAM           | CDP ± 0.3 dB         | measurement of the   |
|                      |                      | test equipment.      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For -20 dB ≥ -30 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.5 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2 EA UE relative   | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | This accuracy is     |
| code domain power    | CDP ± 0.2 dB         | based on the         |
| accuracy for         |                      | linearity of the     |
| DC-HSUPA using       | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  | code domain power    |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH   | CDP ± 0.3 dB         | measurement of the   |
| with 16QAM           |                      | test equipment.      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For -20 dB ≥ -30 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.5 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2 EB UE Relative   | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | This accuracy is     |
| Code Domain Power    | CDP ± 0.2 dB         | based on the         |
| Accuracy for         |                      | linearity of the     |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH   | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  | code domain power    |
| with 16QAM for UL    | CDP ± 0.3 dB         | measurement of the   |
| OLTD                 |                      | test equipment.      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For -20 dB ≥ -30 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.5 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.3 Frequency Error  | ±10 Hz               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.3A Frequency Error | ±10 Hz per carrier   |                      |
| for DC-HSUPA         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.3B Frequency error | ±10 Hz               |                      |
| for UL OLTD          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.3C Frequency error | ±10 Hz               |                      |
| for UL CLTD          |                      |                      |
| Activation state 1   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.3D Frequency error | ±10 Hz               |                      |
| for UL CLTD          |                      |                      |
| Activation state 2   |                      |                      |
| and 3                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.1 Open loop      | ±1,0 dB              | The uncertainty of   |
| power control in     |                      | this test is a       |
| uplink               |                      | combination of the   |
|                      |                      | downlink level       |
|                      |                      | setting error and    |
|                      |                      | the uplink power     |
|                      |                      | measurement that are |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated.        |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Formula =            |
|                      |                      | SQRT(sou             |
|                      |                      | rce\_level\_error^2^ |
|                      |                      | +                    |
|                      |                      | po                   |
|                      |                      | wer\_meas\_error^2^) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.1A Open Loop     | ±1,0 dB per carrier  | The uncertainty of   |
| Power Control in the |                      | this test is a       |
| Uplink for DC-HSUPA  |                      | combination of the   |
|                      |                      | downlink level       |
|                      |                      | setting error and    |
|                      |                      | the uplink power     |
|                      |                      | measurement that are |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated.        |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Formula =            |
|                      |                      | SQRT(sou             |
|                      |                      | rce\_level\_error^2^ |
|                      |                      | +                    |
|                      |                      | po                   |
|                      |                      | wer\_meas\_error^2^) |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.2 Inner loop     | The test system      | This accuracy is     |
| power control in the | uncertainty is the   | based on the         |
| uplink               | function of the UE   | linearity of the     |
|                      | transmitter power    | absolute power       |
|                      | control range for    | measurement of the   |
|                      | each combination of  | test equipment.      |
|                      | the step size and    |                      |
|                      | number of steps.     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For 0 dB and 1 dB    |                      |
|                      | range ±0,1 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 2 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,15 dB       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 3 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,2 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a greater than 3 |                      |
|                      | dB range ±0,3 dB     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.2A Inner Loop    | The test system      | This accuracy is     |
| Power Control in the | uncertainty is the   | based on the         |
| Uplink for DC-HSUPA  | function of the UE   | linearity of the     |
|                      | transmitter power    | absolute power       |
|                      | control range for    | measurement of the   |
|                      | each combination of  | test equipment.      |
|                      | the step size and    |                      |
|                      | number of steps.     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For 0 dB and 1 dB    |                      |
|                      | range ±0,1 dB per    |                      |
|                      | carrier              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 2 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,15 dB per   |                      |
|                      | carrier              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 3 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,2 dB per    |                      |
|                      | carrier              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a greater than 3 |                      |
|                      | dB range ±0,3 dB per |                      |
|                      | carrier              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.2B Inner Loop    | The test system      | This accuracy is     |
| Power Control in the | uncertainty is the   | based on the         |
| Uplink for UL OLTD   | function of the UE   | linearity of the     |
|                      | transmitter power    | absolute power       |
|                      | control range for    | measurement of the   |
|                      | each combination of  | test equipment.      |
|                      | the step size and    |                      |
|                      | number of steps.     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For 0 dB and 1 dB    |                      |
|                      | range ±0,1 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 2 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,15 dB       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 3 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,2 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a greater than 3 |                      |
|                      | dB range ±0,3 dB     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.3 Minimum Output | ±1,0 dB              | Measured on a static |
| Power                |                      | signal               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.3A Minimum       | ±1,0 dB              | Measured on a static |
| Output Power for     |                      | signal               |
| DC-HSUPA             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.3C Minimum       | ±1,0 dB              | Measured on a static |
| Output Power for UL  |                      | signal               |
| CLTD Activation      |                      |                      |
| state 1              |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.3D Minimum       | ±1,0 dB              | Measured on a static |
| Output Power for UL  |                      | signal               |
| CLTD Activation      |                      |                      |
| state 2 and 3        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.4                | ±0,4 dB              | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Ou                   |                      | in DPCCH ratio       |
| t-of-synchronisation |                      |                      |
| handling of output   |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| power:               |                      | in                   |
| $                    |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| \ \frac{\text{DPCCH} |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      | based on power meter |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error and the  |
|                      |                      | DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio. |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN Ioc is   |
|                      |                      | not important but is |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.4A               | ±0,4 dB              | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Ou                   |                      | in DPCCH ratio       |
| t-of-synchronisation |                      |                      |
| handling of output   |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| power for UE which   |                      | in                   |
| supports type 1 for  |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| DCH:                 |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| $                    |                      | based on power meter |
| \ \frac{\text{DPCCH} |                      | measurement after    |
| _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error and the  |
|                      |                      | DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio. |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN Ioc is   |
|                      |                      | not important but is |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.4B               | ±0,4 dB              | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Ou                   |                      | in DPCCH ratio       |
| t-of-synchronisation |                      |                      |
| handling of output   |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| power for UL OLTD:   |                      | in                   |
| $                    |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| \ \frac{\text{DPCCH} |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      | based on power meter |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error and the  |
|                      |                      | DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio. |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN Ioc is   |
|                      |                      | not important but is |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.5 Out of quality | ±0,4 dB              | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| handling of TPI for  |                      | in DPCCH ratio       |
| UL CLTD activation   |                      |                      |
| state 1              |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| :$\ \f               |                      | in                   |
| rac{F - \text{TPICH} |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | based on power meter |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error and the  |
|                      |                      | DPCCH\_Ec/Ior ratio. |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN Ioc is   |
|                      |                      | not important but is |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.5.1 Transmit OFF   | ±1,0 dB              | Measured on a static |
| Power: (static case) |                      | signal               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.5.2 Transmit       | On power +0,7 dB /   | Assume asymmetric    |
| ON/OFF time mask     | -1,0 dB              | meas error -1.0 dB / |
| (dynamic case)       |                      | 0.7 dB comprising    |
|                      | Off power (dynamic   | RSS of: -0.7 dB      |
|                      | case) TBD            | downlink error plus  |
|                      |                      | -0.7 dB meas error,  |
|                      |                      | and +0.7 dB for      |
|                      |                      | upper limit (assume  |
|                      |                      | UE won\'t go above   |
|                      |                      | 24 nominal).         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For the off power,   |
|                      |                      | the accuracy of a    |
|                      |                      | two-pass measurement |
|                      |                      | needs to be          |
|                      |                      | analysed.            |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.6 Change of TFC:   | ±0,3 dB relative     |                      |
| power control step   | over a 9 dB range    |                      |
| size (7 dB step)     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5,6AA Change of TFC  | ±0,3 dB relative     |                      |
| for UL OLTD: power   | over a 9 dB range    |                      |
| control step size (7 |                      |                      |
| dB step)             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.7 Power setting in | A subset of 5.4.2.   |                      |
| uplink compressed    |                      |                      |
| mode:- UE output     |                      |                      |
| power                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.7A HS-DPCCH        | The test system      | This accuracy is     |
|                      | uncertainty is the   | based on the         |
|                      | function of the UE   | linearity of the     |
|                      | transmitter power    | absolute power       |
|                      | range for each step  | measurement of the   |
|                      | size on the HS-DPCCH | test equipment.      |
|                      | channel.             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For 0 dB and 1 dB    |                      |
|                      | range ±0,1 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 2 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,15 dB       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 3 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,2 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a greater than 3 |                      |
|                      | dB range ±0,3 dB     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.7BA HS-DPCCH power | The test system      | This accuracy is     |
| control for UL OLTD  | uncertainty is the   | based on the         |
|                      | function of the UE   | linearity of the     |
|                      | transmitter power    | absolute power       |
|                      | range for each step  | measurement of the   |
|                      | size on the HS-DPCCH | test equipment.      |
|                      | channel.             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For 0 dB and 1 dB    |                      |
|                      | range ±0,1 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 2 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,15 dB       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 3 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,2 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a greater than 3 |                      |
|                      | dB range ±0,3 dB     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.7BB HS-DPCCH power | The test system      | This accuracy is     |
| control for UL CLTD  | uncertainty is the   | based on the         |
| activation state 1   | function of the UE   | linearity of the     |
|                      | transmitter power    | absolute power       |
|                      | range for each step  | measurement of the   |
|                      | size on the HS-DPCCH | test equipment.      |
|                      | channel.             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For 0 dB and 1 dB    |                      |
|                      | range ±0,1 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 2 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,15 dB       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 3 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,2 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a greater than 3 |                      |
|                      | dB range ±0,3 dB     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.7BC HS-DPCCH power | The test system      | This accuracy is     |
| control for UL CLTD  | uncertainty is the   | based on the         |
| activation state 2   | function of the UE   | linearity of the     |
| and 3                | transmitter power    | absolute power       |
|                      | range for each step  | measurement of the   |
|                      | size on the HS-DPCCH | test equipment.      |
|                      | channel.             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For 0 dB and 1 dB    |                      |
|                      | range ±0,1 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 2 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,15 dB       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a nominal 3 dB   |                      |
|                      | range ±0,2 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For a greater than 3 |                      |
|                      | dB range ±0,3 dB     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.8 Occupied         | ±100 kHz             | Accuracy = ±3\*RBW.  |
| Bandwidth            |                      | Assume 30 kHz        |
|                      |                      | bandwidth.           |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.8A Occupied        | ±100 kHz             | Accuracy = ±3\*RBW.  |
| Bandwidth for        |                      | Assume 30 kHz        |
| DC-HSUPA             |                      | bandwidth.           |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.8B Occupied        | ±100 kHz             | Accuracy = ±3\*RBW.  |
| Bandwidth (OBW) for  |                      | Assume 30 kHz        |
| UL OLTD              |                      | bandwidth.           |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.8C Occupied        | ±100 kHz             | Accuracy = ±3\*RBW.  |
| Bandwidth (OBW) for  |                      | Assume 30 kHz        |
| UL CLTD Activation   |                      | bandwidth.           |
| state 1              |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9 Spectrum         | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| emission mask        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9A Spectrum        | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| emission mask with   |                      |                      |
| HS-DPCCH             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9AA Spectrum       | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| Emission Mask with   |                      |                      |
| HS-DPCCH for UL OLTD |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9AB Spectrum       | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| Emission Mask with   |                      |                      |
| HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD |                      |                      |
| activation state 1   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9AC Spectrum       | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| Emission Mask with   |                      |                      |
| HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD |                      |                      |
| activation state 2   |                      |                      |
| and 3                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9B Spectrum        | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| emission mask with   |                      |                      |
| E-DCH                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9BA Spectrum       | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| Emission Mask with   |                      |                      |
| E-DCH for UL OLTD    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9BB Spectrum       | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| Emission Mask with   |                      |                      |
| E-DCH for UL CLTD    |                      |                      |
| activation state 1   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9BC Spectrum       | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| Emission Mask with   |                      |                      |
| E-DCH for UL CLTD    |                      |                      |
| activation state 2   |                      |                      |
| and 3                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9C Additional      | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| Spectrum Emission    |                      |                      |
| Mask for DC-HSUPA    |                      |                      |
| (QPSK)               |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9D Additional      | ±1,5 dB              |                      |
| Spectrum Emission    |                      |                      |
| Mask for DC-HSUPA    |                      |                      |
| (16QAM)              |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10 ACLR            | 5 MHz offset: ± 0,8  |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 10 MHz offset: ± 0,8 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10A ACLR with      | 5 MHz offset: ± 0,8  |                      |
| HS-DPCCH             | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 10 MHz offset: ± 0,8 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10AA Adjacent      | 5 MHz offset: ± 0,8  |                      |
| Channel Leakage      | dB                   |                      |
| Power Ratio (ACLR)   |                      |                      |
| with HS-DPCCH for UL | 10 MHz offset: ± 0,8 |                      |
| OLTD                 | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10B ACLR with      | 5 MHz offset: ± 0,8  |                      |
| E-DCH                | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 10 MHz offset: ± 0,8 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10BA Adjacent      | 5 MHz offset: ± 0,8  |                      |
| Channel Leakage      | dB                   |                      |
| Power Ratio (ACLR)   |                      |                      |
| with E-DCH for UL    | 10 MHz offset: ± 0,8 |                      |
| OLTD                 | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10C ACLR with      | 7.5 MHz offset:      |                      |
| E-DCH for DC-HSUPA   | ± 0,8 dB             |                      |
| (QPSK)               |                      |                      |
|                      | 12.5 MHz offset:     |                      |
|                      | ± 0,8 dB             |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10D ACLR with      | 7.5 MHz offset:      |                      |
| E-DCH for DC-HSUPA   | ± 0,8 dB             |                      |
| (16QAM)              |                      |                      |
|                      | 12.5 MHz offset:     |                      |
|                      | ± 0,8 dB             |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.11 Spurious        | ± 2,0 dB for UE and  |                      |
| emissions            | coexistence bands    |                      |
|                      | for results ≥        |                      |
|                      | ‑60 dBm              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 3,0 dB for results |                      |
|                      | \< -60 dBm           |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Outside above:       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f≤2.2GHz: ± 1.5 dB   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz:                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 2.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±4.0 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.11A Spurious       | ± 2,0 dB for UE and  |                      |
| emissions for        | coexistence bands    |                      |
| DC-HSUPA             | for results ≥        |                      |
|                      | ‑60 dBm              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 3,0 dB for results |                      |
|                      | \< -60 dBm           |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Outside above:       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f≤2.2GHz: ± 1.5 dB   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz:                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 2.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±4.0 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.11B Spurious       | ± 2,0 dB for UE and  |                      |
| Emissions for UL     | coexistence bands    |                      |
| OLTD                 | for results ≥        |                      |
|                      | ‑60 dBm              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 3,0 dB for results |                      |
|                      | \< -60 dBm           |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Outside above:       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f≤2.2GHz: ± 1.5 dB   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz:                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 2.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±4.0 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.11C Spurious       | ± 2,0 dB for UE and  |                      |
| emissions for UL     | coexistence bands    |                      |
| CLTD Activation      | for results ≥        |                      |
| state 1              | ‑60 dBm              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 3,0 dB for results |                      |
|                      | \< -60 dBm           |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Outside above:       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f≤2.2GHz: ± 1.5 dB   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz:                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 2.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±4.0 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.11D Spurious       | ± 2,0 dB for UE and  |                      |
| emissions for UL     | coexistence bands    |                      |
| CLTD Activation      | for results ≥        |                      |
| state 2 and 3        | ‑60 dBm              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 3,0 dB for results |                      |
|                      | \< -60 dBm           |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Outside above:       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f≤2.2GHz: ± 1.5 dB   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz:                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 2.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±4.0 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.12 Transmit        |  ± 2.2 dB            | CW Interferer error  |
| Intermodulation      |                      | is 0.7 dB for the UE |
|                      |                      | power RSS with 0.7   |
|                      |                      | dB for CW setting =  |
|                      |                      | 1.0 dB               |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Measurement error of |
|                      |                      | intermod product is  |
|                      |                      | 0.7 dB for UE power  |
|                      |                      | RSS with 0.7 dB for  |
|                      |                      | relative = 1.0 dB    |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Interferer has an    |
|                      |                      | effect of 2 times on |
|                      |                      | the intermod product |
|                      |                      | so overall test      |
|                      |                      | uncertainty is       |
|                      |                      | 2\*1.0 RSS with 1.0  |
|                      |                      | = 2.2 dB.            |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Apply half any       |
|                      |                      | excess test system   |
|                      |                      | uncertainty to       |
|                      |                      | increase the         |
|                      |                      | interferer level     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.12A Transmit       |  ± 2.2 dB            |                      |
| Intermodulation for  |                      |                      |
| DC‑HSUPA             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.1 Transmit      | ±2.5 %               |                      |
| modulation: EVM      |                      |                      |
|                      | (for single code)    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.1A Transmit     | ±2.5 %               |                      |
| modulation: EVM with |                      |                      |
| HS-DPCCH             | (for single code)    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.1AA Transmit    | ±2.5 %               |                      |
| modulation: EVM and  |                      |                      |
| phase discontinuity  | (for single code)    |                      |
| with HS-DPCCH        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | ±6 degree for Phase  |                      |
|                      | discontinuity        |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.1AB Transmit    | ±2.5 %               |                      |
| modulation: EVM and  |                      |                      |
| phase discontinuity  | (for single code)    |                      |
| with HS-DPCCH for UL |                      |                      |
| OLTD                 |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | ±6 degree for Phase  |                      |
|                      | discontinuity        |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.1AC Transmit    | ±2.5 %               |                      |
| modulation: EVM and  |                      |                      |
| phase discontinuity  | (for single code)    |                      |
| with HS-DPCCH for UL |                      |                      |
| CLTD Activation      |                      |                      |
| state 1              |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | ±6 degree for Phase  |                      |
|                      | discontinuity        |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.1AD Transmit    | ±2.5 %               |                      |
| modulation: EVM and  |                      |                      |
| phase discontinuity  | (for single code)    |                      |
| with HS-DPCCH for UL |                      |                      |
| CLTD Activation      |                      |                      |
| state 2 and 3        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | ±6 degree for Phase  |                      |
|                      | discontinuity        |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.1AAA EVM and IQ | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
| origin offset for    |                      |                      |
| HS-DPCCH with E-DCH  | (for IQ origin       |                      |
| with 16 QAM          | offset)              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.2 Transmit      | ±1.0dB               |                      |
| modulation: peak     |                      |                      |
| code domain error    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.2A Relative     | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
| Code Domain Error    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.2B Relative     | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
| Code Domain Error    |                      |                      |
| with HS-DPCCH and    |                      |                      |
| E-DCH                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.2BA Relative    | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
| Code Domain Error    |                      |                      |
| with HS-DPCCH and    |                      |                      |
| E-DCH for DC-HSUPA   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.2C Relative     | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
| Code Domain Error    |                      |                      |
| for HS-DPCCH and     |                      |                      |
| E-DCH with 16QAM     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.2CA Relative    | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
| Code Domain error    |                      |                      |
| with HS-DPCCH and    |                      |                      |
| E-DCH with 16QAM for |                      |                      |
| DC-HSUPA             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.3 UE phase      | ±2.5 % for EVM (for  |                      |
| discontinuity        | single code)         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | ±10 Hz for Frequency |                      |
|                      | error                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | ±6 degree for Phase  |                      |
|                      | discontinuity        |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.4 PRACH quality | ±2.5 %               |                      |
| (EVM)                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.4 PRACH quality | ±10 Hz               |                      |
| (Frequency error)    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.5 In-band       | ±0,8 dB              |                      |
| emission for         |                      |                      |
| DC-HSUPA             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

F.1.3 Measurement of receiver
-----------------------------

Table F.1.3: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for receiver tests

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Clause               | Maximum Test System  | Derivation of Test   |
|                      | Uncertainty          | System Uncertainty   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.2 Reference        | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     |                      |
| sensitivity level    |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 0.7 dB for Ec      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.2A Reference       | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | This applies for     |
| sensitivity level    |                      | both DC-HSDPA cells  |
| for DC-HSDPA         | ± 0.7 dB for Ec      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.2B Reference       | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | This applies for     |
| sensitivity level    |                      | both DB-DC-HSDPA     |
| for DB-DC-HSDPA      | ± 0.7 dB for Ec      | cells                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.2C Reference       | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | This applies for all |
| sensitivity level    |                      | 3CHSDPA cells        |
| for single band      | ± 0.7 dB for Ec      |                      |
| 4C-HSDPA             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.2D Reference       | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | This applies for all |
| sensitivity level    |                      | /4C-HSDPA cells      |
| for Dual band        | ± 0.7 dB for Ec      |                      |
| 4C-HSDPA             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.2DA Reference      | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | This applies for all |
| sensitivity level    |                      | 3C-HSDPA cells       |
| for Dual band        | ± 0.7 dB for Ec      |                      |
| 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier) |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3 maximum input    | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | The critical         |
| level:               |                      | parameter is the     |
|                      |                      | overall signal level |
|                      |                      | and not the --19 dB  |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior ratio.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.7 dB absolute      |
|                      |                      | error due to signal  |
|                      |                      | measurement          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior ratio   |
|                      |                      | error is \<0.1 dB    |
|                      |                      | but is not important |
|                      |                      | so is ignored        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3A Maximum Input   | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | The critical         |
| Level for HS-PDSCH   |                      | parameter is the     |
| Reception (16QAM)    |                      | overall signal level |
|                      |                      | and not the --3 dB   |
|                      |                      | HS-PDSCH\_Ec/Ior     |
|                      |                      | ratio.               |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.7 dB absolute      |
|                      |                      | error due to signal  |
|                      |                      | measurement          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | HS-PDSCH/Ior ratio   |
|                      |                      | error is \<0.1 dB    |
|                      |                      | but is not important |
|                      |                      | so is ignored        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3B Maximum Input   | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | The critical         |
| Level for HS-PDSCH   |                      | parameter is the     |
| Reception (64QAM)    |                      | overall signal level |
|                      |                      | and not the --2 dB   |
|                      |                      | HS-PDSCH\_Ec/Ior     |
|                      |                      | ratio.               |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.7 dB absolute      |
|                      |                      | error due to signal  |
|                      |                      | measurement          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | HS-PDSCH/Ior ratio   |
|                      |                      | error is \<0.1 dB    |
|                      |                      | but is not important |
|                      |                      | so is ignored        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3C Maximum Input   | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | Same as 6.3A         |
| Level for DC-HSDPA   |                      |                      |
| Reception (16QAM)    |                      | This applies for     |
|                      |                      | both DC-HSDPA cells  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3D Maximum Input   | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | Same as 6.3B         |
| Level for DC-HSDPA   |                      |                      |
| Reception (64QAM)    |                      | This applies for     |
|                      |                      | both DC-HSDPA cells  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3E Maximum Input   | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | Same as 6.3A         |
| Level for            |                      |                      |
| DB-DC-HSDPA          |                      | This applies for     |
| Reception (16QAM)    |                      | both DB-DC-HSDPA     |
|                      |                      | cells                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3F Maximum Input   | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | Same as 6.3B         |
| Level for            |                      |                      |
| DB-DC-HSDPA          |                      | This applies for     |
| Reception (64QAM)    |                      | both DB-DC-HSDPA     |
|                      |                      | cells                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3G Maximum Input   | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | Same as 6.3A         |
| Level for 4C-HSDPA   |                      |                      |
| Reception (16QAM)    |                      | This applies for all |
|                      |                      | 4C-HSDPA cells       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3GA Maximum Input  | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | Same as 6.3A         |
| Level for 4C-HSDPA   |                      |                      |
| Reception (16QAM) (3 |                      | This applies for all |
| carrier)             |                      | 3C-HSDPA cells       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3H Maximum Input   | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | Same as 6.3B         |
| Level for 4C-HSDPA   |                      |                      |
| Reception (64QAM)    |                      | This applies for all |
|                      |                      | /4C-HSDPA cells      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.3HA Maximum Input  | ± 0.7 dB for Ior     | Same as 6.3B         |
| Level for 4C-HSDPA   |                      |                      |
| Reception (64QAM)(3  |                      | This applies for all |
| carrier)             |                      | 3C-HSDPA cells       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.4 Adjacent channel | ± 1.1 dB             | Overall system       |
| selectivity (Rel-99  |                      | uncertainty          |
| and Rel-4)           |                      | comprises three      |
|                      |                      | quantities:          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 1\. Wanted signal    |
|                      |                      | level error          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 2\. Interferer       |
|                      |                      | signal level error   |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 3\. Additional       |
|                      |                      | impact of interferer |
|                      |                      | ACLR                 |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Items 1 and 2 are    |
|                      |                      | assumed to be        |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be root sum squared  |
|                      |                      | to provide the ratio |
|                      |                      | error of the two     |
|                      |                      | signals. Assume for  |
|                      |                      | simplicity this      |
|                      |                      | ratio error is       |
|                      |                      | linearly added to    |
|                      |                      | the interferer ACLR. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Test System          |
|                      |                      | uncertainty = SQRT   |
|                      |                      | (wan                 |
|                      |                      | ted\_level\_error^2^ |
|                      |                      | +                    |
|                      |                      | interfer             |
|                      |                      | er\_level\_error^2^) |
|                      |                      | + ACLR effect.       |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The ACLR effect is   |
|                      |                      | calculated           |
|                      |                      | by:(Formula to       |
|                      |                      | follow)              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | (E.g. ACLR at 5 MHz  |
|                      |                      | of 51 dB gives       |
|                      |                      | additional error of  |
|                      |                      | 0.0765 dB. ACLR of   |
|                      |                      | 48 gives error of    |
|                      |                      | --0.15 dB.)          |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.4A Adjacent        | ± 1.1 dB             | Same as above        |
| channel selectivity  |                      |                      |
| (Rel-5 and later     |                      |                      |
| releases)            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.4B Adjacent        | ± 0.7 dB for Îor     | Overall system       |
| channel selectivity  |                      | uncertainty          |
| (ACS) for DC-HSDPA   | ± 0.7 dB for Ioac    | comprises three      |
|                      |                      | quantities:          |
|                      | ± 1.1 dB for overall |                      |
|                      | uncertainty          | 1\. Wanted signal    |
|                      |                      | level error          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 2\. Interferer       |
|                      |                      | signal level error   |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 3\. Additional       |
|                      |                      | impact of interferer |
|                      |                      | ACLR                 |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Items 1 and 2 are    |
|                      |                      | assumed to be        |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be root sum squared  |
|                      |                      | to provide the ratio |
|                      |                      | error of the two     |
|                      |                      | signals. Assume for  |
|                      |                      | simplicity this      |
|                      |                      | ratio error is       |
|                      |                      | linearly added to    |
|                      |                      | the interferer ACLR. |
|                      |                      | Assume also for      |
|                      |                      | simplicity this      |
|                      |                      | interferer ACLR      |
|                      |                      | impacts equally on   |
|                      |                      | both DC-HSDPA cells. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Test System          |
|                      |                      | uncertainty = SQRT   |
|                      |                      | (wan                 |
|                      |                      | ted\_level\_error^2^ |
|                      |                      | +                    |
|                      |                      | interfer             |
|                      |                      | er\_level\_error^2^) |
|                      |                      | + ACLR effect.       |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The ACLR effect is   |
|                      |                      | calculated           |
|                      |                      | by:(Formula to       |
|                      |                      | follow)              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | (E.g. ACLR at 5 MHz  |
|                      |                      | of 51 dB gives       |
|                      |                      | additional error of  |
|                      |                      | 0.0765 dB. ACLR of   |
|                      |                      | 48 gives error of    |
|                      |                      | --0.15 dB.)          |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.4C Adjacent        | ± 0.7 dB for Îor     | Same as 6.4B         |
| channel selectivity  |                      |                      |
| (ACS) for            | ± 0.7 dB for Ioac    |                      |
| DB-DC-HSDPA          |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 1.1 dB for overall |                      |
|                      | uncertainty          |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.5 Blocking         | System error with f  | Using ± 0.7 dB for   |
| characteristics      | \<15 MHz offset:     | signal and           |
|                      |                      | interferer as        |
|                      | ± 1.4 dB             | currently defined    |
|                      |                      | and 68 dB ACLR @ 10  |
|                      | f \>= 15 MHz offset  | MHz.                 |
|                      | and f~b~ ≤ 2.2 GHz:  |                      |
|                      | ± 1.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.5A Blocking        | System error with f  | Using ± 0.7 dB for   |
| characteristics for  | \<15 MHz offset:     | signal and           |
| DC-HSDPA             |                      | interferer as        |
|                      | ± 1.4 dB             | currently defined    |
|                      |                      | and 68 dB ACLR @ 10  |
|                      | f \>= 15 MHz offset  | MHz.                 |
|                      | and f~b~ ≤ 2.2 GHz:  |                      |
|                      | ± 1.0 dB             | Assume for           |
|                      |                      | simplicity this      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     | system error applies |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         | for both DC-HSDPA    |
|                      |                      | cells.               |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.5B Blocking        | System error with f  | Same as 6.5A         |
| characteristics for  | \<15 MHz offset:     |                      |
| DB-DC-HSDPA          |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 1.4 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \>= 15 MHz offset  |                      |
|                      | and f~b~ ≤ 2.2 GHz:  |                      |
|                      | ± 1.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.5C Blocking        | System error with f  | Same as 6.5A         |
| characteristics for  | \<15 MHz offset:     |                      |
| DC-HSUPA             |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 1.4 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \>= 15 MHz offset  |                      |
|                      | and f~b~ ≤ 2.2 GHz:  |                      |
|                      | ± 1.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.5D Blocking        | System error with f  | Same as 6.5A         |
| Characteristics for  | \<15 MHz offset:     |                      |
| single Uplink Single |                      |                      |
| band 4C-HSDPA        | ± 1.4 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \>= 15 MHz offset  |                      |
|                      | and f~b~ ≤ 2.2 GHz:  |                      |
|                      | ± 1.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.5E Blocking        | System error with f  | Same as 6.5A         |
| Characteristics for  | \<15 MHz offset:     |                      |
| dual Uplink Single   |                      |                      |
| band 4C-HSDPA        | ± 1.4 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \>= 15 MHz offset  |                      |
|                      | and f~b~ ≤ 2.2 GHz:  |                      |
|                      | ± 1.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.5F Blocking        | System error with f  | Same as 6.5A         |
| Characteristics for  | \<15 MHz offset:     |                      |
| single Uplink Dual   |                      |                      |
| band 4C-HSDPA        | ± 1.4 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \>= 15 MHz offset  |                      |
|                      | and f~b~ ≤ 2.2 GHz:  |                      |
|                      | ± 1.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.5FA Blocking       | System error with f  | Same as 6.5A         |
| Characteristics for  | \<15 MHz offset:     |                      |
| single Uplink Dual   |                      |                      |
| band 4C-HSDPA (3     | ± 1.4 dB             |                      |
| carrier)             |                      |                      |
|                      | f \>= 15 MHz offset  |                      |
|                      | and fb  2.2 GHz: ±  |                      |
|                      | 1.0 dB               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤4 GHz: |                      |
|                      | ±1.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.5G Blocking        | System error with f  | Same as 6.5A         |
| Characteristics for  | \<15 MHz offset:     |                      |
| dual Uplink Dual     |                      |                      |
| band 4C-HSDPA        | ± 1.4 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \>= 15 MHz offset  |                      |
|                      | and f~b~ ≤ 2.2 GHz:  |                      |
|                      | ± 1.0 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.5GA Blocking       | System error with f  | Same as 6.5A         |
| Characteristics for  | \<15 MHz offset:     |                      |
| dual Uplink Dual     |                      |                      |
| band 4C-HSDPA (3     | ± 1.4 dB             |                      |
| carrier)             |                      |                      |
|                      | f \>= 15 MHz offset  |                      |
|                      | and fb ≤ 2.2 GHz: ±  |                      |
|                      | 1.0 dB               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤4 GHz: |                      |
|                      | ±1.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.6 Spurious         | f ≤ 2.2 GHz: ± 1.0   |                      |
| Response             | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.6A Spurious        | f ≤ 2.2 GHz: ± 1.0   | This applies for     |
| Response for         | dB                   | both DC-HSDPA cells. |
| DC-HSDPA             |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.6B Spurious        | f ≤ 2.2 GHz: ± 1.0   | This applies for     |
| Response for         | dB                   | both DB-DC-HSDPA     |
| DB-DC-HSDPA          |                      | cells.               |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.6C Spurious        | f ≤ 2.2 GHz: ± 1.0   | This applies for all |
| Response for single  | dB                   | 3C-HSDPA cells.      |
| band 4C-HSDPA        |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.6D Spurious        | f ≤ 2.2 GHz: ± 1.0   | This applies for all |
| Response for dual    | dB                   | 4C-HSDPA cells.      |
| band 4C-HSDPA        |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.6DA Spurious       | f ≤ 2.2 GHz: ± 1.0   | This applies for all |
| Response for dual    | dB                   | 3C-HSDPA cells.      |
| band 4C-HSDPA (3     |                      |                      |
| carrier)             | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz: ±1.7 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±3.1 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.7 Intermodulation  | ±1.3 dB              | Similar issues to    |
| Characteristics      |                      | 7.4 ACS test.        |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | ETR028 says impact f |
|                      |                      | the closer signal is |
|                      |                      | twice that of the    |
|                      |                      | far signal. If both  |
|                      |                      | signals drop 1 dB,   |
|                      |                      | intermod product     |
|                      |                      | drops 2 dB.          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Formula =            |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | (Using CW interferer |
|                      |                      | ±0.5 dB, modulated   |
|                      |                      | interferer ±0.5 dB,  |
|                      |                      | wanted signal ±0.7   |
|                      |                      | dB)                  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 1.3 dB!              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Broadband noise/ACLR |
|                      |                      | not considered but   |
|                      |                      | may have impact.     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.7A Intermodulation | ± 1.3 dB             | Same as 6.7.         |
| Characteristics for  |                      |                      |
| DC-HSDPA             |                      | This applies for     |
|                      |                      | both DC-HSDPA cells. |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.7B Intermodulation | ± 1.3 dB             | Same as 6.7.         |
| Characteristics for  |                      |                      |
| DB-DC-HSDPA          |                      | This applies for     |
|                      |                      | both DB-DC-HSDPA     |
|                      |                      | cells.               |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.7C Intermodulation | ± 1.3 dB             | Same as 6.7.         |
| Characteristics for  |                      |                      |
| DC-HSUPA             |                      | This applies for     |
|                      |                      | both DC-HSUPA cells. |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.7D Intermodulation | ± 1.3 dB             | Same as 6.7.         |
| Characteristics for  |                      |                      |
| single uplink single |                      | This applies for all |
| band 4C-HSDPA        |                      | 3CHSDPA cells.       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.7E Intermodulation | ± 1.3 dB             | Same as 6.7.         |
| Characteristics for  |                      |                      |
| single uplink dual   |                      | This applies for all |
| band 4C-HSDPA        |                      | 4C-HSDPA cells.      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.7EA                | ± 1.3 dB             | Same as 6.7.         |
| Intermodulation      |                      |                      |
| Characteristics for  |                      | This applies for all |
| single uplink dual   |                      | 3C-HSDPA cells.      |
| band 4C-HSDPA (3     |                      |                      |
| carrier)             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.8 Spurious         | ± 3.0 dB for UE      |                      |
| emissions            | receive band and UE  |                      |
|                      | transmit band (-60   |                      |
|                      | dBm)                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Outside above:       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f≤2.2GHz: ± 2.0 dB   |                      |
|                      | (-57 dBm)            |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 2.2 GHz \< f ≤ 4     |                      |
|                      | GHz:                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ± 2.0 dB (-47 dBm)   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f \> 4 GHz: ±4.0 dB  |                      |
|                      | (-47 dBm)            |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Downlink signal Îor  |                      |
|                      | ± 2.0 dB             |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 6.8A Spurious        | f ≤ 4 GHz: ± 2.0 dB  |                      |
| Emissions for        |                      |                      |
| DB-DC-HSDPA          | f \> 4 GHz: ±4.0 dB  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Downlink signal Îor  |                      |
|                      | ± 2.0 dB             |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

F.1.4 Performance requirement
-----------------------------

Table F.1.4: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for Performance
Requirements

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Clause               | Maximum Test System  | Derivation of Test   |
|                      | Uncertainty          | System Uncertainty   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.2 Demodulation in  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Static Propagation   | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in DPCH\_Ec ratio    |
| Condition            | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | in                   |
|                      | dB                   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | based on power meter |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | measurement after    |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error and the  |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior ratio   |
|                      |                      | but is not RSS for   |
|                      |                      | simplicity. The      |
|                      |                      | absolute error of    |
|                      |                      | the AWGN Ioc is not  |
|                      |                      | important for any    |
|                      |                      | tests in clause 7    |
|                      |                      | but is specified as  |
|                      |                      | 1.0 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.2.2 Demodulation   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| in Static            | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in DPCH\_Ec ratio    |
| Propagation          | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
| Condition/           |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| Demodulation of      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | in                   |
| Dedicated Channel    | dB                   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| (DCH) when           |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| (D                   | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | based on power meter |
| L\_DCH\_FET\_Config) | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | measurement after    |
| is configured by     | ±0.1 dB              | the combiner         |
| higher layers        |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error and the  |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior ratio   |
|                      |                      | but is not RSS for   |
|                      |                      | simplicity. The      |
|                      |                      | absolute error of    |
|                      |                      | the AWGN Ioc is not  |
|                      |                      | important for any    |
|                      |                      | tests in clause 7    |
|                      |                      | but is specified as  |
|                      |                      | 1.0 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.3 Demodulation of  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Worst case gain      |
| DCH in multipath     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | uncertainty due to   |
| Fading Propagation   | ±0.56 dB             | the fader from the   |
| conditions           |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^) |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.3.2 Demodulation   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Worst case gain      |
| of DCH in multipath  | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | uncertainty due to   |
| Fading Propagation   | ±0.56 dB             | the fader from the   |
| conditions/ Single   |                      | calibrated static    |
| Link Performance     | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
| when                 | dB                   |                      |
| (D                   |                      | In addition the same |
| L\_DCH\_FET\_Config) | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | ±0.3 dB              |
| is configured by     | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| higher layers        | ±0.1 dB              | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^) |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.4 Demodulation of  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| DCH in Moving        | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Propagation          | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.5 Demodulation of  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| DCH in Birth-Death   | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Propagation          | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.5A Demodulation of | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| DCH in high speed    | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| train conditions     | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.6.1 Demodulation   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Worst case gain      |
| of DCH in open loop  | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | uncertainty due to   |
| Transmit diversity   | ±0.8 dB              | the fader from the   |
| mode                 |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | dB                   | per output           |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | In addition the same |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.5^2^  |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.768 dB. Round up   |
|                      |                      | to 0.8 dB            |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.6.2 Demodulation   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.6.1        |
| of DCH in closed     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| loop Transmit        | ±0.8 dB              |                      |
| diversity mode       |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.6.3, Demodulation  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.6.1        |
| of DCH in site       | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| selection diversity  | ±0.8 dB              |                      |
| Transmission power   |                      |                      |
| control mode         | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.7.1 Demodulation   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Worst case gain      |
| in inter-cell soft   | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | uncertainty due to   |
| Handover (Release 5  | ±0.6 dB              | the fader from the   |
| and earlier)         |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | per output           |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | dB                   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.5^2^  |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.768 dB, but per    |
|                      |                      | output               |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | or                   |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | the error is (0.5^2^ |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.6 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.7.1A Demodulation  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Worst case gain      |
| in inter-cell soft   | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | uncertainty due to   |
| Handover (Release 6  | ±0.6 dB              | the fader from the   |
| and later)           |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | per output           |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | dB                   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.5^2^  |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.768 dB, but per    |
|                      |                      | output               |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | or                   |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | the error is (0.5^2^ |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.6 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.7.1B Demodulation  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Worst case gain      |
| of DCH in Inter-Cell | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | uncertainty due to   |
| Soft Handover when   | ±0.6 dB              | the fader from the   |
| (D                   |                      | calibrated static    |
| L\_DCH\_FET\_Config) | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
| is configured by     | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | per output           |
| higher layers        | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | dB                   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.5^2^  |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.768 dB, but per    |
|                      |                      | output               |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | or                   |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | the error is (0.5^2^ |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.6 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.7.2 Combining of   | Ior1,Ior2 ±1.0 dB    | Test is looking for  |
| TPC commands Test 1  |                      | changes in power --  |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | need to allow for    |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | relaxation in        |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | criteria for power   |
|                      |                      | step of probably 0.1 |
|                      |                      | dB to 0.4 dB         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.7.2 Combining of   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Same as 7.7.1        |
| TPC commands Test 2  | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |                      |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.7.2A Combining of  | Ior1,Ior2 ±1.0 dB    | Test is looking for  |
| TPC commands from    |                      | changes in power --  |
| radio links of       | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | need to allow for    |
| different radio link | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | relaxation in        |
| sets when            | ±0.1 dB              | criteria for power   |
| (D                   |                      | step of probably 0.1 |
| L\_DCH\_FET\_Config) |                      | dB to 0.4 dB         |
| is configured by     |                      |                      |
| higher layers Test 1 |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.7.2A Combining of  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Same as 7.7.1        |
| TPC commands from    | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| radio links of       | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| different radio link |                      |                      |
| sets when            | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |                      |
| (D                   | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| L\_DCH\_FET\_Config) | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| is configured by     |                      |                      |
| higher layers Test 2 | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.7.3 Combining of   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Same as 7.2.         |
| reliable TPC         | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| commands from radio  | ±0.3 dB              | Offsets calculated   |
| links of different   |                      | as RMS of:           |
| radio link sets      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |                      |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | Ior1/Ioc,            |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              | DPCH\_Ec1/Ior1 and   |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec2/Ior2       |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |                      |
|                      | or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | and                  |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | Ior1/Ioc,            |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | DPCH\_Ec1/Ior1 and   |
|                      | dB                   | DPCH\_Ec3/Ior3       |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  | respectively.        |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}1}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}2}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}3}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Offset of            |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}1}}$ |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}1}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.4 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Offset of            |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}1}}$ |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}1}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.4 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.7.3A Combining of  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Same as 7.2.         |
| reliable TPC         | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| commands from radio  | ±0.3 dB              | Offsets calculated   |
| links of different   |                      | as RMS of:           |
| radio link sets when | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |                      |
| DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | Ior1/Ioc,            |
| \[10\] is configured | ±0.3 dB              | DPCH\_Ec1/Ior1 and   |
| by higher layers     |                      | DPCH\_Ec2/Ior2       |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |                      |
|                      | or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | and                  |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | Ior1/Ioc,            |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | DPCH\_Ec1/Ior1 and   |
|                      | dB                   | DPCH\_Ec3/Ior3       |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  | respectively.        |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}1}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}2}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}3}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Offset of            |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}1}}$ |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}1}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.4 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Offset of            |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}1}}$ |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_  |                      |
|                      | {}}{I_{\text{or}1}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.4 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.1 Power control  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| in downlink constant | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| BLER target (Release | ±0.6 dB              | For test cases       |
| 5 and earlier)       |                      | wherein the SS       |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | response time to DL  |
|                      | dB                   | power control        |
|                      |                      | commands is delayed  |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | by one timeslot from |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | the immediate        |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | response then        |
|                      |                      | additional test      |
|                      |                      | system uncertainty   |
|                      |                      | in                   |
|                      |                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |
|                      |                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                      |                      | is applied:          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For test 1 an        |
|                      |                      | additional 0.3 dB is |
|                      |                      | allowed. This value  |
|                      |                      | is based on a        |
|                      |                      | rounded 0.24 dB      |
|                      |                      | delta value from     |
|                      |                      | simulations.         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For test 2 an        |
|                      |                      | additional 0.2 dB is |
|                      |                      | allowed. This value  |
|                      |                      | is based on a        |
|                      |                      | rounded 0.14 dB      |
|                      |                      | delta value from     |
|                      |                      | simulations.         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.1A Power control | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| in downlink constant | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| BLER target (Release | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| 6 and later)         |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.1B Power control | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| in the downlink,     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| constant BLER target | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| when                 |                      |                      |
| DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
| is configured by     | dB                   |                      |
| higher layers        |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.2 Power control  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3.         |
| in downlink initial  | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| convergence          | ±0.6 dB              | When the SS response |
|                      |                      | time to DL power     |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | control commands is  |
|                      | dB                   | delayed by one       |
|                      |                      | timeslot from the    |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | immediate response,  |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | then additional test |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | system uncertainty   |
|                      |                      | in$\frac{\text{DPCH} |
|                      |                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                      |                      | of 0.2 db is         |
|                      |                      | applied. This value  |
|                      |                      | is based on a        |
|                      |                      | rounded 0.15 dB      |
|                      |                      | delta value from     |
|                      |                      | simulations.         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.2A Power control | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3.         |
| in the downlink,     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| initial convergence  | ±0.6 dB              | When the SS response |
| when                 |                      | time to DL power     |
| DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | control commands is  |
| is configured by     | dB                   | delayed by one       |
| higher layers        |                      | timeslot from the    |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | immediate response,  |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | then additional test |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | system uncertainty   |
|                      |                      | in$\frac{\text{DPCH} |
|                      |                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                      |                      | of 0.2 db is         |
|                      |                      | applied. This value  |
|                      |                      | is based on a        |
|                      |                      | rounded 0.15 dB      |
|                      |                      | delta value from     |
|                      |                      | simulations.         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.3 Power control  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3.         |
| in downlink: wind up | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| effects (Release 5   | ±0.6 dB              | For test cases       |
| and earlier)         |                      | wherein the SS       |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | response time to DL  |
|                      | dB                   | power control        |
|                      |                      | commands is delayed  |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | by one timeslot from |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | the immediate        |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | response, then       |
|                      |                      | additional test      |
|                      |                      | system uncertainty   |
|                      |                      | in$\frac{\text{DPCH} |
|                      |                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                      |                      | is applied:          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For test 1 an        |
|                      |                      | additional 0.3 dB is |
|                      |                      | allowed. This value  |
|                      |                      | is based on a        |
|                      |                      | rounded 0.26 dB      |
|                      |                      | delta value from     |
|                      |                      | simulations.         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.3A Power control | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3.         |
| in downlink: wind up | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| effects (Release 6   | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| and later)           |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.3B Power control | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3.         |
| in the downlink,     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| wind up effects      | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| (Release 6 and       |                      |                      |
| later) when          | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
| DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config | dB                   |                      |
| is configured by     |                      |                      |
| higher layers        | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.4 Power control  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| in the downlink,     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| different transport  | ±0.6 dB              | For test cases where |
| formats              |                      | the SS response time |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | to DL power control  |
|                      | dB                   | commands is delayed  |
|                      |                      | by one timeslot from |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | the immediate        |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | response, then       |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | additional test      |
|                      |                      | system uncertainty   |
|                      |                      | in                   |
|                      |                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_{ |
|                      |                      | }}{I_{\text{or}}}$is |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | applied:             |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For test 1 stage 1,  |
|                      |                      | an additional 0.2 dB |
|                      |                      | is allowed. This     |
|                      |                      | value is based on a  |
|                      |                      | rounded 0.24 dB      |
|                      |                      | delta value from     |
|                      |                      | simulations.         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For test 1 stage 2,  |
|                      |                      | an additional 0.1 dB |
|                      |                      | is allowed. This     |
|                      |                      | value is based on a  |
|                      |                      | rounded 0.16 dB      |
|                      |                      | delta value from     |
|                      |                      | simulations.         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.4A Power control | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| in the downlink,     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| different transport  | ±0.6 dB              | For test cases where |
| formats when         |                      | the SS response time |
| DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | to DL power control  |
| is configured by     | dB                   | commands is delayed  |
| higher layers        |                      | by one timeslot from |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | the immediate        |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | response, then       |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | additional test      |
|                      |                      | system uncertainty   |
|                      |                      | in                   |
|                      |                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}_{ |
|                      |                      | }}{I_{\text{or}}}$is |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | applied:             |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For test 1 stage 1,  |
|                      |                      | an additional 0.2 dB |
|                      |                      | is allowed. This     |
|                      |                      | value is based on a  |
|                      |                      | rounded 0.24 dB      |
|                      |                      | delta value from     |
|                      |                      | simulations.         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For test 1 stage 2,  |
|                      |                      | an additional 0.1 dB |
|                      |                      | is allowed. This     |
|                      |                      | value is based on a  |
|                      |                      | rounded 0.16 dB      |
|                      |                      | delta value from     |
|                      |                      | simulations.         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.8.5 Power control  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| in the downlink for  | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| F-DPCH               | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\                   |                      |
|                      | frac{F - \text{DPCH} |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.9.1 Downlink       | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| compressed mode      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| (Release 5 and       | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| earlier)             |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.9.1A Downlink      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| compressed mode      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| (Release 6 and       | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| later)               |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.10 Blind transport | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.2          |
| format detection     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Tests 1, 2, 3        | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.10 Blind transport | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 7.3          |
| format detection     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Tests 4, 5, 6        | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.11 Demodulation of | Test 1:              | Test 1: Values for   |
| paging channel (PCH) |                      | Îor/Ioc and Ioc are  |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | the same as 7.2      |
|                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              | **Uncertainties for  |
|                      |                      | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior and  |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | PICH\_Ec/Ior are the |
|                      | dB                   | same as for          |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior**       |
|                      | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | PICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Test 2:              | Test 2: Values for   |
|                      |                      | Îor/Ioc and Ioc are  |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | the same as 7.3      |
|                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | **Uncertainties for  |
|                      |                      | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior and  |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | PICH\_Ec/Ior are the |
|                      | dB                   | same as for          |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior**       |
|                      | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | PICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.12 Detection of    | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Values for Îor/Ioc   |
| acquisition          | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | and Ioc are the same |
| indicator (AI)       | ±0.3 dB              | as 7.2               |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | **Uncertainty for    |
|                      | dB                   | AICH\_Ec/Ior and     |
|                      |                      | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior is   |
|                      | AICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB | the same as for      |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior**       |
|                      | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.12A Detection of   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Values for Îor/Ioc   |
| E-DCH Acquisition    | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | and Ioc are the same |
| Indicator (E-AI)     | ±0.3 dB              | as 7.2               |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | **Uncertainty for    |
|                      | dB                   | AICH\_Ec/Ior, E-AICH |
|                      |                      | and S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                      | AICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB | is the same as for   |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior**       |
|                      | E-AICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 7.13 UE UL power     | DL:                  | DL: Value for Ior is |
| control operation    |                      | same as for TC 7.7.2 |
| with discontinuous   | Ior ±\[1.0\] dB      | test 1. Value for    |
| UL DPCCH             |                      | F-DPCh is same as TC |
| transmission         | $\                   | for TC 7.8.5         |
| operation            | frac{F - \text{DPCH} |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | UL: This accuracy is |
|                      | ±\[0.1\] dB          | based on the         |
|                      |                      | linearity of the     |
|                      | UL:                  | absolute power       |
|                      |                      | measurement of the   |
|                      | For a greater than 3 | test equipment.      |
|                      | dB range ±\[0,3\]dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

F.1.5 Requirements for support of RRM
-------------------------------------

Table F.1.5: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for Radio Resource
Management Tests

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Clause               | Maximum Test System  | Derivation of Test   |
|                      | Uncertainty          | System Uncertainty   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2 Idle Mode Tasks  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.2 Cell           |                      |                      |
| Re-Selection         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.2.1 Scenario 1:  | [During T1 and       |                      |
| Single carrier case  | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During              |                      |
|                      | T1:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1,   |                      |
|                      | 3, 4, 5, 6) relative |                      |
|                      | to                   |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During              |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2,   |                      |
|                      | 3, 4, 5, 6) relative |                      |
|                      | to                   |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) The relative     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) across        |                      |
|                      | different cells may  |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(n)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(2) at T1 and the |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(1, 3, 4, 5,   |                      |
|                      | 6), are uncorrelated |                      |
|                      | to each other.       |                      |
|                      | Similarly, the       |                      |
|                      | absolute uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(1) at T2 and  |                      |
|                      | the relative         |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(2, 3, 4, 5, 6),  |                      |
|                      | are uncorrelated to  |                      |
|                      | each other.          |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.2.2 Scenario 2:  | [Channel 1 during T1 |                      |
| Multi carrier case   | and T2:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 1 during    |                      |
|                      | T1:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(3,   |                      |
|                      | 4) relative to       |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 1 during    |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(3,   |                      |
|                      | 4) relative to       |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during T1 |                      |
|                      | and T2:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during    |                      |
|                      | T1:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(5,   |                      |
|                      | 6) relative to       |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during    |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(5,   |                      |
|                      | 6) relative to       |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) to e): Same as   |                      |
|                      | for the              |                      |
|                      | one-frequency test   |                      |
|                      | 8.2.2.1.             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(3, 4), are    |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other. Similarly,    |                      |
|                      | the absolute         |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(2) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(5, 6), are    |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | g\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and Ior(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | h\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ioc(1) and Ioc(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.3 UTRAN to GSM   |                      |                      |
| Cell Re-Selection    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.3.1 Scenario 1:  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Both UTRA and GSM    | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in CPICH\_Ec ratio   |
| level changed        | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | $I_{\tex             | in${\hat{I}}_{\text  |
|                      | t{oc}}/\text{RXLEV}$ | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              | based on power meter |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | the combiner         |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.5 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | RXLEV ±1.0 dB        | in Ioc/RXLEV based   |
|                      |                      | on power meter       |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  | measurement after    |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | the combiner         |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN is       |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the RXLEV is      |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.3.2 Scenario 2:  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 8.2.3.1      |
| Only UTRA level      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| changed              | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\tex             |                      |
|                      | t{oc}}/\text{RXLEV}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | RXLEV ±1.0 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.3.3 Scenario 3:  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 8.2.3.1      |
| HCS with only UTRA   | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| level changed        | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\tex             |                      |
|                      | t{oc}}/\text{RXLEV}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | RXLEV ±1.0 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.4 FDD/TDD cell   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 8.2.2.2      |
| re-selection         | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          |                      |
|                      | c}1}/I_{\text{oc}2}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For multi-band UE    |                      |
|                      | with Band I and VI   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          |                      |
|                      | c}1}/I_{\text{oc}2}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.5 UTRA to E-UTRA |                      |                      |
| Cell Re-Selection    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.5.1 E-UTRA is of | [UTRA                | Notes:               |
| higher priority      | cell]{.underline}    |                      |
|                      |                      | I~oc~ is the AWGN on |
|                      | I~oc~ ±0.7 dB        | cell 1 (UTRA)        |
|                      |                      | frequency            |
|                      | I~or~ / I~oc~ ±0.3   |                      |
|                      | dB                   | I~or~ / I~oc~ is the |
|                      |                      | ratio of cell 1      |
|                      | CPICH E~c~ / I~or~   | signal / AWGN        |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | CPICH Ec / Ior is    |
|                      | [E-UTRA              | the fraction of cell |
|                      | cell]{.underline}    | 1 power assigned to  |
|                      |                      | the CPICH Physical   |
|                      | N~oc~ ±0.7 dB        | channel              |
|                      | averaged over        |                      |
|                      | BW~Config~           | N~oc~ is the AWGN on |
|                      |                      | cell 2 (E-UTRA       |
|                      | Ês / N~oc~ ±0.3 dB   | )frequency           |
|                      | averaged over        |                      |
|                      | BW~Config~           | Ês / N~oc~ is the    |
|                      |                      | ratio of cell        |
|                      |                      | 12signal / AWGN      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.5.2 E-UTRA is of | Same as 8.2.5.1      |                      |
| lower priority       |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.2.5.3 RSRQ based   | [UTRA                | Notes:               |
| reselection when     | cell]{.underline}    |                      |
| E-UTRA FDD is of     |                      | I~oc~ is the AWGN on |
| higher priority      | I~oc~ ±0.7 dB        | cell 1 (UTRA)        |
|                      |                      | frequency            |
|                      | I~or~ / I~oc~ ±0.3   |                      |
|                      | dB                   | I~or~ / I~oc~ is the |
|                      |                      | ratio of cell 1      |
|                      | CPICH E~c~ / I~or~   | signal / AWGN        |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | CPICH E~c~ / I~or~   |
|                      | [E-UTRA              | is the fraction of   |
|                      | cell]{.underline}    | cell 1 power         |
|                      |                      | assigned to the      |
|                      | N~oc~ ±1.0 dB        | CPICH Physical       |
|                      | averaged over        | channel              |
|                      | BW~Config~           |                      |
|                      |                      | N~oc~ is the AWGN on |
|                      | Ês / N~oc~ ±0.3 dB   | cell 2 (E-UTRA)      |
|                      | averaged over        | frequency            |
|                      | BW~Config~           |                      |
|                      |                      | Ê~s~ / N~oc~ is the  |
|                      |                      | ratio of cell 2      |
|                      |                      | signal / AWGN        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3 UTRAN Connected  |                      |                      |
| Mode Mobility        |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.1 FDD/FDD Soft   | [During T0/T1 and    |                      |
| Handover             | T2/T3/T4             |                      |
|                      | /T5/T6:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Relative delay of    |                      |
|                      | paths received from  |                      |
|                      | cell 2 with respect  |                      |
|                      | to cell 1: ±0.5      |                      |
|                      | chips                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During              |                      |
|                      | T0/T1:]{.underline}  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Already covered      |                      |
|                      | above                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During              |                      |
|                      | T2/T3/T4             |                      |
|                      | /T5/T6:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(n)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2), are       |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.2 FDD/FDD Hard   |                      |                      |
| Handover             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.2.1 Handover to  | [During T1 and T2 /  |                      |
| intra-frequency cell | T3:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During              |                      |
|                      | T1:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Already covered      |                      |
|                      | above                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T2 /         |                      |
|                      | T3:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(n)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2), are       |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.2.2 Handover to  | [Channel 1 during T1 |                      |
| inter-frequency cell | and T2 /             |                      |
|                      | T3:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during T1 |                      |
|                      | and T2 /             |                      |
|                      | T3:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during    |                      |
|                      | T1:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Already covered      |                      |
|                      | above                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during T2 |                      |
|                      | / T3:]{.underline}   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc(n) and       |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) may have any  |                      |
|                      | amount of positive   |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and Ior(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ioc(1) and Ioc(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.3 FDD/TDD        | TBD                  |                      |
| Handover             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.4 Inter-system   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Handover from UTRAN  | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in CPICH\_Ec ratio   |
| FDD to GSM           | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | $I_{\tex             | in${\hat{I}}_{\text  |
|                      | t{oc}}/\text{RXLEV}$ | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              | based on power meter |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | the combiner         |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.5 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | RXLEV ±1.0 dB        | in Ioc/RXLEV based   |
|                      |                      | on power meter       |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  | measurement after    |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | the combiner         |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN is       |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the RXLEV is      |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.4a Inter-system  | UTRA Cell:           | Notes:               |
| Handover from UTRAN  |                      |                      |
| FDD to E-UTRAN FDD   | I~oc~ ±0.7 dB        | I~oc~ is the AWGN on |
|                      |                      | cell 1 (UTRA)        |
|                      | I~or~ / I~oc~ ±0.3   | frequency            |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | I~or~ / I~oc~ is the |
|                      | CPICH E~c~ / I~or~   | ratio of cell 1      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | signal / AWGN        |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | EUTRA Cell:          | CPICH Ec / Ior is    |
|                      |                      | the fraction of cell |
|                      | N~oc~ ±1.0 dB        | 1 power assigned to  |
|                      | averaged over        | the CPICH Physical   |
|                      | BW~Config~           | channel              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Ês / N~oc~ ±0.3 dB   | N~oc~ is the AWGN on |
|                      | averaged over        | cell 2 frequency     |
|                      | BW~Config~           |                      |
|                      |                      | Ês / N~oc~ is the    |
|                      |                      | ratio of cell 2      |
|                      |                      | signal / AWGN        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.4b Inter-system  | Same as 8.3.4a       | Same as 8.3.4a       |
| Handover from UTRAN  |                      |                      |
| FDD to E-UTRAN TDD   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.4c Inter-system  | Same as 8.3.4a       | Same as 8.3.4a       |
| Handover from UTRAN  |                      |                      |
| FDD to E-UTRAN FDD:  |                      |                      |
| Unknown Target Cell  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.4d Inter-system  | Same as 8.3.4a       | Same as 8.3.4a       |
| Handover from UTRAN  |                      |                      |
| FDD to E-UTRAN TDD;  |                      |                      |
| Unknown Target Cell  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5 Cell           |                      |                      |
| Re-selection in      |                      |                      |
| CELL\_FACH           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.1 One          | During T1 and T2:    |                      |
| frequency present in |                      |                      |
| the neighbour list   | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | During T1:           |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1,   |                      |
|                      | 3, 4, 5, 6) relative |                      |
|                      | to                   |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | During T2:           |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2,   |                      |
|                      | 3, 4, 5, 6) relative |                      |
|                      | to                   |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) The relative     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) across        |                      |
|                      | different cells may  |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(n)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(2) at T1 and the |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(1, 3, 4, 5,   |                      |
|                      | 6), are uncorrelated |                      |
|                      | to each other.       |                      |
|                      | Similarly, the       |                      |
|                      | absolute uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(1) at T2 and  |                      |
|                      | the relative         |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(2, 3, 4, 5, 6),  |                      |
|                      | are uncorrelated to  |                      |
|                      | each other.          |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.1a One         | Same as 8.3.5.1      | Same as 8.3.5.1      |
| frequency present in |                      |                      |
| neighbour list and   |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH DRX          |                      |                      |
| configured           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.2 Two          | [Channel 1 during T1 |                      |
| frequencies present  | and T2:]{.underline} |                      |
| in the neighbour     |                      |                      |
| list                 | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 1 during    |                      |
|                      | T1:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(3,   |                      |
|                      | 4) relative to       |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 1 during    |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(3,   |                      |
|                      | 4) relative to       |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during T1 |                      |
|                      | and T2:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during    |                      |
|                      | T1:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(5,   |                      |
|                      | 6) relative to       |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during    |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(5,   |                      |
|                      | 6) relative to       |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) to e): Same as   |                      |
|                      | for the              |                      |
|                      | one-frequency test   |                      |
|                      | 8.3.5.1.             |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(3, 4), are    |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other. Similarly,    |                      |
|                      | the absolute         |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(2) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(5, 6), are    |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | g\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and Ior(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | h\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ioc(1) and Ioc(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions is       |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.2A Two         | Same as 8.2.2.2      | Same as 8.2.2.2      |
| frequencies present  |                      |                      |
| in the neighbour     |                      |                      |
| list and HS-DSCH DRX |                      |                      |
| configured (Absolute |                      |                      |
| priority levels not  |                      |                      |
| configured)          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.2B Two         | FFS                  | FFS                  |
| frequencies present  |                      |                      |
| in the neighbour     |                      |                      |
| list and HS-DSCH DRX |                      |                      |
| configured (Absolute |                      |                      |
| priority levels      |                      |                      |
| configured)          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.2C Two         | Same as 8.2.2.2      | Same as 8.2.2.2      |
| frequencies present  |                      |                      |
| in the neighbour     |                      |                      |
| list and HS-DSCH     |                      |                      |
| 2^nd^ DRX configured |                      |                      |
| (Absolute priority   |                      |                      |
| levels not           |                      |                      |
| configured)          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.3 Cell         | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Re-selection to GSM  | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in CPICH\_Ec ratio   |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | $I_{\tex             | in${\hat{I}}_{\text  |
|                      | t{oc}}/\text{RXLEV}$ | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              | based on power meter |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | the combiner         |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.5 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | RXLEV ±1.0 dB        | in Ioc/RXLEV based   |
|                      |                      | on power meter       |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  | measurement after    |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | the combiner         |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN is       |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the RXLEV is      |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.4 Cell         | [Channel 1 during T2 |                      |
| Reselection during   | and T3:]{.underline} |                      |
| an MBMS session, two |                      |                      |
| frequencies present  | []{.underline}       |                      |
| in neighbour list    |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 1 during    |                      |
|                      | T1, T2 and           |                      |
|                      | T3:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during    |                      |
|                      | T1, T2 and           |                      |
|                      | T3:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc(n) and       |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) may have any  |                      |
|                      | amount of positive   |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and Ior(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ioc(1) and Ioc(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.1            | Same as 8.2.5.1      | Same as 8.2.5.1      |
| Reselection to       | during T1 and T2     | during T1 and T2     |
| E-UTRA FDD when      |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH DRX is       |                      |                      |
| configured (E-UTRA   |                      |                      |
| has higher priority) |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.2            | Same as 8.2.5.2      | Same as 8.2.5.2      |
| Reselection to       | during T1 and T2     | during T1 and T2     |
| E-UTRA FDD when      |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH DRX is       |                      |                      |
| configured (E-UTRA   |                      |                      |
| has lower priority)  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.3            | Same as 8.2.5.1      | Same as 8.2.5.1      |
| Reselection to       | during T1 and T2     | during T1 and T2     |
| E-UTRA FDD when      |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH 2nd DRX is   |                      |                      |
| configured (E-UTRA   |                      |                      |
| has higher priority) |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.4            | Same as 8.2.5.1      | Same as 8.2.5.1      |
| Reselection to       | during T1 and T2     | during T1 and T2     |
| E-UTRA TDD when      |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH DRX is       |                      |                      |
| configured (E-UTRA   |                      |                      |
| has higher priority) |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.5            | Same as 8.2.5.2      | Same as 8.2.5.2      |
| Reselection to       | during T1 and T2     | during T1 and T2     |
| E-UTRA TDD when      |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH DRX is       |                      |                      |
| configured (E-UTRA   |                      |                      |
| has lower priority)  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.6            | Same as 8.2.5.1      | Same as 8.2.5.1      |
| Reselection to       | during T1 and T2     | during T1 and T2     |
| E-UTRA TDD when      |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH 2nd DRX is   |                      |                      |
| configured           |                      |                      |
| configured (E-UTRA   |                      |                      |
| has higher priority) |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.6 Cell           |                      |                      |
| Re-selection in      |                      |                      |
| CELL\_PCH            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.6.1 One          | Same as 8.2.2.1      | Same as 8.2.2.1      |
| frequency present in |                      |                      |
| the neighbour list   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.6.2 Two          | Same as 8.2.2.2      | Same as 8.2.2.2      |
| frequencies present  |                      |                      |
| in the neighbour     |                      |                      |
| list                 |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.6.3 Cell         | [Channel 1 during    | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| re-selection during  | T2:]{.underline}     | in${\hat{I}}_{\text  |
| an MBMS session, one |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| UTRAN                | []{.underline}       | based on power meter |
| inter-frequency and  |                      | measurement after    |
| 2 GSM cells present  | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  | the combiner         |
| in the neighbour     | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
| list                 | ±0.1 dB              | 0.5 dB uncertainty   |
|                      |                      | in Ioc/RXLEV based   |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   | on power meter       |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      | [Channel 1 during    |                      |
|                      | T1, T2 and           | The absolute error   |
|                      | T3:]{.underline}     | of the AWGN is       |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(1)   | of the RXLEV is      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during    |                      |
|                      | T1, T2 and           |                      |
|                      | T3:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |                      |
|                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [GSM during          |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc         |                      |
|                      | }}(2)/\text{RXLEV}$1 |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | RXLEV1 ±1.0 dB       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc         |                      |
|                      | }}(2)/\text{RXLEV}$2 |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | RXLEV2 ±1.0 dB       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | GSM during T3:       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc         |                      |
|                      | }}(2)/\text{RXLEV}$2 |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | RXLEV2 ±1.0 dB       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc(n) and       |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) may have any  |                      |
|                      | amount of positive   |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and Ior(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ioc(1) and Ioc(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.7 Cell           |                      |                      |
| Re-selection in      |                      |                      |
| URA\_PCH             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.7.1 One          | Same as 8.2.2.1      | Same as 8.2.2.1      |
| frequency present in |                      |                      |
| the neighbour list   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.7.2 Two          | Same as 8.2.2.2      | Same as 8.2.2.2      |
| frequencies present  |                      |                      |
| in the neighbour     |                      |                      |
| list                 |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.8 Serving        | [During T0 and       |                      |
| HS-DSCH cell change  | T1/T2                |                      |
|                      | /T3/T4:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Relative delay of    |                      |
|                      | paths received from  |                      |
|                      | cell 2 with respect  |                      |
|                      | to cell 1: ±0.5      |                      |
|                      | chips                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During              |                      |
|                      | T0:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Already covered      |                      |
|                      | above                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During              |                      |
|                      | T1/T2                |                      |
|                      | /T3/T4:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(n)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2), are       |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.9 Enhanced       | [During              |                      |
| Serving HS-DSCH cell | T1/T2                |                      |
| change               | /T3/T4:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Relative delay of    |                      |
|                      | paths received from  |                      |
|                      | cell 2 with respect  |                      |
|                      | to cell 1: ±0.5      |                      |
|                      | chips                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(n)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2), are       |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.10 System        |                      |                      |
| information          |                      |                      |
| acquisition for CSG  |                      |                      |
| cell                 |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.10.1             | [During T1 /         |                      |
| Intrafrequency       | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
| System information   |                      |                      |
| acquisition for CSG  | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| cell                 | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During              |                      |
|                      | T1:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Already covered      |                      |
|                      | above                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During              |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(n)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2), are       |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.3.10.2 Inter       | [Channel 1 during T1 |                      |
| frequency System     | and T2 /             |                      |
| information          | T3:]{.underline}     |                      |
| acquisition for CSG  |                      |                      |
| cell                 | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during T1 |                      |
|                      | and T2 /             |                      |
|                      | T3:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during    |                      |
|                      | T1:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Already covered      |                      |
|                      | above                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during T2 |                      |
|                      | / T3:]{.underline}   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc(n) and       |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) may have any  |                      |
|                      | amount of positive   |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and Ior(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ioc(1) and Ioc(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.4 RRC Connection   |                      |                      |
| Control              |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.4.1 RRC            | Settings.            | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Re-establishment     |                      | in CPICH\_Ec ratio   |
| delay                | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |                      |
|                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              | in                   |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | dB                   | based on power meter |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  | the combiner         |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error and the  |
|                      |                      | CPICH\_Ec/Ior ratio. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN is       |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.4.2 Random Access  | Settings.            | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
|                      |                      | in AICH\_Ec ratio    |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |                      |
|                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              | in                   |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | dB                   | based on power meter |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      | $\frac{\text{AICH}   | the combiner         |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      | Measurements:        | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | Power difference. ±  | ratio error and the  |
|                      | 1dB                  | AICH\_Ec/Ior ratio.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Maximum Power: same  | The absolute error   |
|                      | as 5.5.2             | of the AWGN is       |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Power difference:    |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Assume symmetric     |
|                      |                      | meas error ±1.0 dB   |
|                      |                      | comprising RSS of:   |
|                      |                      | -0.7 dB downlink     |
|                      |                      | error plus -0.7 dB   |
|                      |                      | meas error.          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Maximum Power:       |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Assume asymmetric    |
|                      |                      | meas error -1.0 dB / |
|                      |                      | 0.7 dB comprising    |
|                      |                      | RSS of: -0.7 dB      |
|                      |                      | downlink error plus  |
|                      |                      | -0.7 dB meas error,  |
|                      |                      | and +0.7 dB for      |
|                      |                      | upper limit          |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | PRACH timing error   |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 chips           |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.4.3 Transport      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| format combination   | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | in DPCH\_Ec ratio    |
| selection in UE      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.4.4 E-TFC          |                      |                      |
| restriction in UE    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.4.4.1 10ms TTI     | $\frac{E_            | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| E-DCH E-TFC          | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| restriction          | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | Absolute power       |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$ ±0.7 | uncertainty (all     |
|                      | dB                   | codes together)      |
|                      |                      | ±0.7dB, relative     |
|                      | DPCCH code domain    | code domain power    |
|                      | absolute power       | uncertainty ±0.5dB,  |
|                      | measurement          |                      |
|                      | uncertainty ±0.9 dB  | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be combined RSS.     |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is     |
|                      |                      | (0.5^2^ + 0.7^2^)    |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.9 dB,      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.4.4.2 2ms TTI      | $\frac{E_            | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| E-DCH E-TFC          | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| restriction          | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | Same as 8.4.4.1      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$ ±0.7 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | DPCCH code domain    |                      |
|                      | absolute power       |                      |
|                      | measurement          |                      |
|                      | uncertainty ±0.9 dB  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.5 Timing and       |                      |                      |
| Signalling           |                      |                      |
| Characteristics      |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.5.1 UE Transmit    | $I_{\text{or}}$ ±1.0 | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Timing               | dB                   | in DPCH\_Ec ratio    |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | r}1}/I_{\text{or}2}$ | in Ior1/Ior2 based   |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              | on power meter       |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      | $\frac{\text{DPCH}   | the combiner         |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the Ior is        |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Rx-Tx Timing         |                      |
|                      | Accuracy ±0.5 chips  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Tx-Tx Timing         |                      |
|                      | Accuracy ±0.25 chips |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6 UE Measurements  |                      |                      |
| Procedures           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1 FDD intra      |                      |                      |
| frequency            |                      |                      |
| measurements         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.1 Event        | [During T1/T4 and    | []{.underline}       |
| triggered reporting  | T2/T3:]{.underline}  |                      |
| in AWGN propagation  |                      |                      |
| conditions (R99)     | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T1/T4        |                      |
|                      | only:]{.underline}   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Already covered      |                      |
|                      | above                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T2/T3        |                      |
|                      | only:]{.underline}   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.1A Event       | [During T1/T3 and    |                      |
| triggered reporting  | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
| in AWGN propagation  |                      |                      |
| conditions (Rel-4    | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| and later)           | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T1/T3        |                      |
|                      | only:]{.underline}   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Already covered      |                      |
|                      | above                |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T2           |                      |
|                      | only:]{.underline}   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.1 and 8.6.1.1A | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(n)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2), are       |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.2 Event        | [During T0 to        |                      |
| triggered reporting  | T6:]{.underline}     |                      |
| of multiple          |                      |                      |
| neighbours in AWGN   | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| propagation          | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
| condition (R99)      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T1/T2, T3    |                      |
|                      | and T6:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(3)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T3, T4/T5    |                      |
|                      | and T6:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[4\], with  |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) The relative     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) across        |                      |
|                      | different cells may  |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(1)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2, 3), are    |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.2A Event       | [During T0 to        |                      |
| triggered reporting  | T4:]{.underline}     |                      |
| of multiple          |                      |                      |
| neighbours in AWGN   | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| propagation          | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
| condition (Rel-4 and | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
| later)               |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T1, T2 and   |                      |
|                      | T4:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(3)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T2, T3 and   |                      |
|                      | T4:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | [Assum               |                      |
|                      | ptions:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Same as             |                      |
|                      | 8.6.1.2]{.underline} |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.3 Event        | [During T0 to        |                      |
| triggered reporting  | T5:]{.underline}     |                      |
| of two detectable    |                      |                      |
| neighbours in AWGN   | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| propagation          | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
| condition (R99)      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T1, T2/T3,   |                      |
|                      | T4 and               |                      |
|                      | T5:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(3)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T2/T3, T4    |                      |
|                      | and T5:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.3A Event       | [During T0 to        |                      |
| triggered reporting  | T4:]{.underline}     |                      |
| of two detectable    |                      |                      |
| neighbours in AWGN   | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| propagation          | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
| condition (Rel-4 and | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
| later)               |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T1, T2, T3   |                      |
|                      | and T4:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(3)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T2, T3 and   |                      |
|                      | T4:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[4\], with  |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) The relative     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) across        |                      |
|                      | different cells may  |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(1)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2, 3), are    |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.4A Correct     | [During T1 and       |                      |
| reporting of         | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
| neighbours in fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| condition (Rel-4 and | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
| later)               | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T1 and       |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.4A             | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(n)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2), are       |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.5 Event        | [During T1 and       |                      |
| triggered reporting  | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
| of multiple          |                      |                      |
| neighbour cells in   | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| Case 1 fading        | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
| condition            | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T1 and       |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[4\], with  |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) The relative     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) across        |                      |
|                      | different cells may  |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(1)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2), are       |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.1.6 Event        | [During T1 and       |                      |
| triggered reporting  | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
| of multiple          |                      |                      |
| neighbour cells in   | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| Case 3 fading        | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
| condition            | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [During T1 and       |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[4\], with  |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) The relative     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) across        |                      |
|                      | different cells may  |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(1)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2), are       |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.2 FDD inter      |                      |                      |
| frequency            |                      |                      |
| measurements         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.2.1 Correct      | Channel 1 [during    |                      |
| reporting of         | T0, T1 and           |                      |
| neighbours in AWGN   | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| condition (Release 5 | []{.underline}       |                      |
| and earlier)         |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 1 during    |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Channel 2 [during    |                      |
|                      | T0, T1 and           |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Channel 2 [during T1 |                      |
|                      | and T2:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(3)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated)          |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc and Ior(n)   |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainty of       |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and the       |                      |
|                      | relative uncertainty |                      |
|                      | of Ior(2), are       |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and Ior(3)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | g\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ioc(1) and Ioc(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.2.1A Correct     | [Same as             | Same as 8.6.2.1      |
| reporting of         | 8.6.2.1]{.underline} |                      |
| neighbours in AWGN   |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| condition (Release 6 |                      |                      |
| and later)           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.2.2 Correct      | [Channel 1 during T1 |                      |
| reporting of         | and T2:]{.underline} |                      |
| neighbours in Fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| condition (Release 5 | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
| only)                | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during T1 |                      |
|                      | and T2:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during    |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc(n) and       |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) may have any  |                      |
|                      | amount of positive   |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and Ior(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ioc(1) and Ioc(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.2.2A Correct     | Same as 8.6.2.2      | Same as 8.6.2.2      |
| reporting of         |                      |                      |
| neighbours in Fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| condition (Release 6 |                      |                      |
| and later)           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.2.3 Correct      | [Channel 1 during T1 |                      |
| reporting of         | and T2:]{.underline} |                      |
| neighbours in Fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
| condition using      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
| TGL1=14              | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during T1 |                      |
|                      | and T2:]{.underline} |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during    |                      |
|                      | T2:]{.underline}     |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc(n) and       |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) may have any  |                      |
|                      | amount of positive   |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and Ior(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ioc(1) and Ioc(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.3 TDD            |                      |                      |
| measurements         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.3.1Correct       | TBD                  |                      |
| reporting of TDD     |                      |                      |
| neighbours in AWGN   |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| condition            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.4 GSM            |                      |                      |
| Measurement          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.4.1 Correct      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| reporting of GSM     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in CPICH\_Ec ratio   |
| neighbours in AWGN   | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
| propagation          |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| condition            | $I_{\tex             | in${\hat{I}}_{\text  |
|                      | t{oc}}/\text{RXLEV}$ | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              | based on power meter |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | the combiner         |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.5 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | RXLEV ±1.0 dB        | in Ioc/RXLEV based   |
|                      |                      | on power meter       |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  | measurement after    |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | the combiner         |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN is       |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the RXLEV is      |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.5 Combined Inter |                      |                      |
| frequency and GSM    |                      |                      |
| measurements         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.5.1 Correct      | [Channel 1 during T0 | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| reporting of         | to T5:]{.underline}  | in${\hat{I}}_{\text  |
| neighbours in AWGN   |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| propagation          | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  | based on power meter |
| condition            | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | measurement after    |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   | 0.5 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              | in Ioc/RXLEV based   |
|                      |                      | on power meter       |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(1)   | measurement after    |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | The absolute error   |
|                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | of the AWGN is       |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 1 during T2 | The absolute error   |
|                      | to T5:]{.underline}  | of the RXLEV is      |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      | []{.underline}       |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For multi-band UE    |                      |
|                      | with Band I and VI   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | relative to          |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(1)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during T0 |                      |
|                      | to T5:]{.underline}  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [Channel 2 during T2 |                      |
|                      | to T5:]{.underline}  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{or}}$(2)   |                      |
|                      | ±0.7 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |                      |
|                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | [GSM during          |                      |
|                      | T4/T5]{.underline}   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\tex             |                      |
|                      | t{oc}}/\text{RXLEV}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | RXLEV ±1.0 dB        |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | Assumptions:         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | a\) The contributing |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), channel      |                      |
|                      | power ratio, and Ioc |                      |
|                      | are derived          |                      |
|                      | according to ETR     |                      |
|                      | 273-1-2 \[16\], with |                      |
|                      | a coverage factor of |                      |
|                      | k=2.                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | b\) Within each      |                      |
|                      | cell, the            |                      |
|                      | uncertainty for      |                      |
|                      | Ior(n), and channel  |                      |
|                      | power ratio are      |                      |
|                      | uncorrelated to each |                      |
|                      | other.               |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | c\) Across different |                      |
|                      | cells, the channel   |                      |
|                      | power ratio          |                      |
|                      | uncertainties may    |                      |
|                      | have any amount of   |                      |
|                      | positive correlation |                      |
|                      | from zero            |                      |
|                      | (uncorrelated) to    |                      |
|                      | one (fully           |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | d\) The uncertainty  |                      |
|                      | for Ioc(n) and       |                      |
|                      | Ior(n) may have any  |                      |
|                      | amount of positive   |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | e\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ior(1) and Ior(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | f\) The absolute     |                      |
|                      | uncertainties for    |                      |
|                      | Ioc(1) and Ioc(2)    |                      |
|                      | may have any amount  |                      |
|                      | of positive          |                      |
|                      | correlation from     |                      |
|                      | zero (uncorrelated)  |                      |
|                      | to one (fully        |                      |
|                      | correlated).         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | An explanation of    |                      |
|                      | correlation between  |                      |
|                      | uncertainties, and   |                      |
|                      | of the rationale     |                      |
|                      | behind the           |                      |
|                      | assumptions, is      |                      |
|                      | recorded in 3GPP TR  |                      |
|                      | 34 902 \[24\].       |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.6.1 Correct      | UTRA Cell:           | Notes:               |
| reporting of E-UTRAN |                      |                      |
| FDD neighbour in     | I~oc~ ±0.7 dB        | I~oc~ is the AWGN on |
| fading propagation   |                      | cell 1 (UTRA)        |
| condition            | I~or~ / I~oc~ ±0.6   | frequency            |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | I~or~ / I~oc~ is the |
|                      | CPICH E~c~ / I~or~   | ratio of cell 1      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | signal / AWGN        |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | EUTRA Cell:          | CPICH Ec / Ior is    |
|                      |                      | the fraction of cell |
|                      | N~oc~ ±1.0 dB        | 1 power assigned to  |
|                      | averaged over        | the CPICH Physical   |
|                      | BW~Config~           | channel              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Ês / N~oc~ ±0.6 dB   | N~oc~ is the AWGN on |
|                      | averaged over        | cell 2 frequency     |
|                      | BW~Config~           |                      |
|                      |                      | Ês / N~oc~ is the    |
|                      |                      | ratio of cell 2      |
|                      |                      | signal / AWGN        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.6.2 Correct      | Same as 8.6.6.1      | Same as 8.6.6.1      |
| reporting of E-UTRAN |                      |                      |
| TDD neighbour in     |                      |                      |
| fading propagation   |                      |                      |
| condition            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.7.1 Correct      | UTRA Cell1 :         | Notes:               |
| reporting of E-UTRA  |                      |                      |
| FDD neighbours in    | I~oc~ ±0.7 dB        | I~oc~ is the AWGN on |
| fading propagation   |                      | cell 1 (UTRA)        |
| condition            | I~or~ / I~oc~ ±0.3   | frequency            |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | I~or~ / I~oc~ is the |
|                      | CPICH E~c~ / I~or~   | ratio of cell 1      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | signal / AWGN        |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | UTRA Cell2 :         | CPICH Ec / Ior is    |
|                      |                      | the fraction of cell |
|                      | I~oc~ ±0.7 dB        | 1 power assigned to  |
|                      |                      | the CPICH Physical   |
|                      | I~or~ / I~oc~ ±0.6   | channel              |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | I~oc~ is the AWGN on |
|                      | CPICH E~c~ / I~or~   | cell 2 (UTRA)        |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | frequency            |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | EUTRA Cell 3:        | I~or~ / I~oc~ is the |
|                      |                      | ratio of cell 2      |
|                      | N~oc~ ±0.7 dB        | signal / AWGN        |
|                      | averaged over        |                      |
|                      | BW~Config~           | CPICH Ec / Ior is    |
|                      |                      | the fraction of cell |
|                      | Ês / N~oc~ ±0.6 dB   | 2 power assigned to  |
|                      | averaged over        | the CPICH Physical   |
|                      | BW~Config~           | channel              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | N~oc~ is the AWGN on |
|                      |                      | cell 3 frequency     |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Ês / N~oc~ is the    |
|                      |                      | ratio of cell 3      |
|                      |                      | signal / AWGN        |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For Cell 2 and Cell  |
|                      |                      | 3:                   |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | I~or~ / I~oc~        |
|                      |                      | uncertainty or Ês /  |
|                      |                      | N~oc~ uncertainty    |
|                      |                      | for fading condition |
|                      |                      | comprises two        |
|                      |                      | quantities:          |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 1\. Signal-to-noise  |
|                      |                      | ratio uncertainty    |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | 2\. Fading profile   |
|                      |                      | power uncertainty    |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Items 1 and 2 are    |
|                      |                      | assumed to be        |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be root sum squared: |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Ês / N~oc~           |
|                      |                      | uncertainty or I~or~ |
|                      |                      | / I~oc~ uncertainty  |
|                      |                      | = SQRT               |
|                      |                      | (Signal-to-noise     |
|                      |                      | ratio uncertainty    |
|                      |                      | ^2^ + Fading profile |
|                      |                      | power uncertainty    |
|                      |                      | ^2^)                 |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Signal-to-noise      |
|                      |                      | ratio uncertainty    |
|                      |                      | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Fading profile power |
|                      |                      | uncertainty ±0.5 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.6.7.2 Correct      | Same as 8.6.7.1      | Same as 8.6.7.1      |
| reporting of E-UTRA  |                      |                      |
| TDD neighbours in    |                      |                      |
| fading propagation   |                      |                      |
| condition            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7 Measurements     |                      |                      |
| Performance          |                      |                      |
| Requirements         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.1 CPICH RSCP     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.1.1 Intra        | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 8.2.2.1      |
| frequency            | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| measurements         | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
| accuracy             |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.1.2 Inter        | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 8.2.2.2      |
| frequency            | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| measurement accuracy | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          |                      |
|                      | c}1}/I_{\text{oc}2}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For multi-band UE    |                      |
|                      | with Band I and VI   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          |                      |
|                      | c}1}/I_{\text{oc}2}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 dB for          |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.2 CPICH Ec/Io    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.2.1 Intra        | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 8.2.2.1      |
| frequency            | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| measurements         | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
| accuracy             |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.2.2 Inter        | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 8.2.2.2      |
| frequency            | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| measurement accuracy | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          |                      |
|                      | c}1}/I_{\text{oc}2}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  |                      |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For multi-band UE    |                      |
|                      | with Band I and VI   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          |                      |
|                      | c}1}/I_{\text{oc}2}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.5 dB for          |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.3.1 UTRA Carrier | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| RSSI, absolute       | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in                   |
| measurement accuracy | ±0.3 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | based on power meter |
|                      | dB                   | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          |                      |
|                      | c}1}/I_{\text{oc}2}$ | 0.3 dB or 0.5dB      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              | uncertainty in       |
|                      |                      | Ioc1/Ioc2 based on   |
|                      | For multi-band UE    | power meter          |
|                      | with Band I and VI   | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          |                      |
|                      | c}1}/I_{\text{oc}2}$ | The absolute error   |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              | of the AWGN is       |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.3.2 UTRA Carrier | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| RSSI, relative       | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in                   |
| measurement accuracy | ±0.3 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | based on power meter |
|                      | dB                   | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          |                      |
|                      | c}2}/I_{\text{oc}3}$ | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              | in Ioc2/Ioc3 based   |
|                      |                      | on power meter       |
|                      | For multi-band UE    | measurement after    |
|                      | with Band I and VI   | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{o          | The absolute error   |
|                      | c}2}/I_{\text{oc}3}$ | of the AWGN is       |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              | specified as 1.0 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.3A GSM Carrier   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| RSSI                 | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in CPICH\_Ec ratio   |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | $I_{\tex             | in${\hat{I}}_{\text  |
|                      | t{oc}}/\text{RXLEV}$ | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | ±0.5 dB              | based on power meter |
|                      |                      | measurement after    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | the combiner         |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | 0.5 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | $\frac{\text{CPICH}  | in Ioc/RXLEV based   |
|                      | _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | on power meter       |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      | RXLEV ±1.0 dB        |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      | RXLEV1/RXLEV2 ±1.4   | of the AWGN is       |
|                      | dB                   | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the RXLEV is      |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The relative         |
|                      |                      | accuracy of RXLEV1   |
|                      |                      | to RXLEV2 is         |
|                      |                      | specified to be 1.4  |
|                      |                      | dB (RMS of           |
|                      |                      | individual           |
|                      |                      | uncertainties) when  |
|                      |                      | BCCHs are on the     |
|                      |                      | same or on different |
|                      |                      | RF channel within    |
|                      |                      | the same frequency   |
|                      |                      | band                 |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The relative         |
|                      |                      | accuracy of RXLEV1   |
|                      |                      | to RXLEV2 is         |
|                      |                      | specified to be 1.4  |
|                      |                      | dB (RMS of           |
|                      |                      | individual           |
|                      |                      | uncertainties) when  |
|                      |                      | BCCHs are on         |
|                      |                      | different frequency  |
|                      |                      | band                 |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.3C UE            | Mean power           | Downlink parameters  |
| Transmitted power    | measurement ±0,7 dB  | are unimportant.     |
| (R99 and Rel-4 only) |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.3D UE            | Mean power           | Downlink parameters  |
| Transmitted power    | measurement ±0,7 dB  | are unimportant.     |
| (Rel-5 and later)    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.4 SFN-CFN        |                      |                      |
| observed time        |                      |                      |
| difference           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.4.1 Intra        | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| frequency            | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in                   |
| measurements         | ±0.3 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| accuracy             |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | based on power meter |
|                      | dB                   | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      | Actual SFN-CFN       |                      |
|                      | observed time        | The absolute error   |
|                      | difference: ±0.5     | of the AWGN is       |
|                      | chips                | specified as 1.0 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.4.2 Inter        | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| frequency            | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in                   |
| measurements         | ±0.3 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| accuracy             |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | based on power meter |
|                      | dB                   | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      | Actual SFN-CFN       |                      |
|                      | observed time        | The absolute error   |
|                      | difference: ±0.5     | of the AWGN is       |
|                      | chips                | specified as 1.0 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.5.1 SFN-SFN      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| observed time        | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in                   |
| difference type 1    | ±0.3 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | based on power meter |
|                      | dB                   | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      | Actual SFN-SFN       |                      |
|                      | observed time        | The absolute error   |
|                      | difference type 1:   | of the AWGN is       |
|                      | ±0.5 chips           | specified as 1.0 dB  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.6.1 UE Rx-Tx     | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| time difference      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in                   |
| (Release 5 and       | ±0.3 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| earlier)             |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | based on power meter |
|                      | dB                   | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      | Rx-Tx Timing         |                      |
|                      | Accuracy ±0.5 chip   | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN is       |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.6.1A UE Rx-Tx    | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| time difference      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in                   |
| (Release 6 and       | ±0.3 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| later)               |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | based on power meter |
|                      | dB                   | measurement after    |
|                      |                      | the combiner         |
|                      | Rx-Tx Timing         |                      |
|                      | Accuracy ±0.5 chip   | The absolute error   |
|                      |                      | of the AWGN is       |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.8 P-CCPCH RSCP   | TBD                  |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.9 UE             | $\frac{E_            | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Transmission Power   | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| Headroom             | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | Absolute power       |
|                      | Overall UL absolute  | uncertainty (all     |
|                      | power measurement    | codes together)      |
|                      | uncertainty ±0.7 dB  | ±0.7dB, relative     |
|                      |                      | code domain power    |
|                      | DPCCH code domain    | uncertainty ±0.3dB,  |
|                      | absolute power       |                      |
|                      | measurement          | These are            |
|                      | uncertainty ±0.8 dB  | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be combined RSS.     |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is     |
|                      |                      | (0.3^2^ + 0.7^2^)    |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.8 dB,      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.10 E-UTRAN FDD   | [UTRA                | Note:                |
| RSRP absolute        | cell]{.underline}    |                      |
| accuracy             |                      | I~oc~ is the AWGN on |
|                      | I~oc~ ±0.7 dB        | cell 1 frequency     |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Î~or~ / I~oc~ ±0.3   | Î~or~ / I~oc~ is the |
|                      | dB                   | ratio of cell 1      |
|                      |                      | signal / AWGN        |
|                      | CPICH E~C~/I~or~     |                      |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | CPICH E~c~ / I~or~   |
|                      |                      | is the fraction of   |
|                      | []{.underline}       | cell 1 power         |
|                      |                      | assigned to the      |
|                      | [E-UTRA              | CPICH Physical       |
|                      | cell]{.underline}    | channel              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | N~oc~ ±0.7 dB        | N~oc~ is the AWGN on |
|                      | averaged over        | cell 2 frequency     |
|                      | BW~Config~           |                      |
|                      |                      | Ê~S~ / N~oc~ is the  |
|                      | N~oc~ ±1.0 dB for    | ratio of cell 2      |
|                      | PRBs \#22-27         | signal / AWGN        |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Ê~S~ / N~oc~ ±0.3 dB |                      |
|                      | averaged over        |                      |
|                      | BW~Config~           |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Ês / N~oc~ ±0.8 dB   |                      |
|                      | for PRBs \#22-27     |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.11 E-UTRAN TDD   | Same as 8.7.10       | Same as 8.7.10       |
| RSRP absolute        |                      |                      |
| accuracy             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.12 E-UTRAN FDD   | Same as 8.7.10       | Same as 8.7.10       |
| RSRQ absolute        |                      |                      |
| accuracy             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 8.7.13 E-UTRAN TDD   | Same as 8.7.10       | Same as 8.7.10       |
| RSRQ absolute        |                      |                      |
| accuracy             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

F.1.6 Performance requirement (HSDPA)
-------------------------------------

Table F.1.6: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for Performance
Requirements (HSDPA)

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Clause               | Maximum Test System  | Derivation of Test   |
|                      | Uncertainty          | System Uncertainty   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.1A to 9.2.1KD    | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Single Link          | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| Performance          | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | Worst case gain      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | uncertainty due to   |
|                      | dB                   | the fader from the   |
|                      |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | per output           |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      | For multi-carrier,   | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | uncertainties apply  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      | for each carrier     | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^) |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB       |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For multi-carrier,   |
|                      |                      | uncertainties apply  |
|                      |                      | for each carrier     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.1L to 9.2.1LD    | Wanted signal        | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Single Link Enhanced | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| Performance Type 3i  | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | For wanted signal    |
|                      |                      | and each interferer, |
|                      | First interferer     | worst case gain      |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | uncertainty due to   |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | the fader from the   |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | calibrated static    |
|                      |                      | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | Second interferer    | per output           |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |                      |
|                      | or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | In addition the same |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | dB                   | uncertainty as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | These are            |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | be combined RSS.     |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For multi-carrier,   | Overall uncertainty  |
|                      | uncertainties apply  | in                   |
|                      | for each carrier     | $                    |
|                      |                      | {\hat{I}}_{\text{or} |
|                      |                      | }/I_{\text{oc}}$,for |
|                      |                      | each signal:         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^)    |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB.      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For multi-carrier,   |
|                      |                      | uncertainties apply  |
|                      |                      | for each carrier     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.1M Single Link   | Serving cell signal  | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Enhanced Performance | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| Type 3i, for         | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Multiflow HSDPA (2   | ±0.6 dB              | For wanted signal    |
| cells)               |                      | and each interferer, |
|                      | Assisting serving    | worst case gain      |
|                      | cell signal          | uncertainty due to   |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | the fader from the   |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | calibrated static    |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      |                      | per output           |
|                      | interferer           |                      |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | In addition the same |
|                      | or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | uncertainty as 7.2.  |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | be combined RSS.     |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall uncertainty  |
|                      | For multi-carrier,   | in                   |
|                      | uncertainties apply  | $                    |
|                      | for each carrier     | {\hat{I}}_{\text{or} |
|                      |                      | }/I_{\text{oc}}$,for |
|                      |                      | each signal:         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^)    |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB.      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | For multi-carrier,   |
|                      |                      | uncertainties apply  |
|                      |                      | for each carrier     |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.2A to 9.2.2E     | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Worst case gain      |
| Open loop diversity  | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | uncertainty due to   |
| performance          | ±0.8 dB              | the fader from the   |
|                      |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | dB                   | per output           |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | In addition the same |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.5^2^  |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.768 dB. Round up   |
|                      |                      | to 0.8 dB            |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.3A to 9.2.3E     | Same as 9.2.2A       | Same as 9.2.2A       |
| Closed loop          |                      |                      |
| diversity            |                      |                      |
| performance          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.4A to 9.2.4H     | Same as 9.2.2A       | Same as 9.2.2A       |
| MIMO performance     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.1 Single Link    | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Performance - AWGN   | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in DPCH\_Ec ratio    |
| propagation          | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
| conditions           |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | in                   |
|                      | dB                   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | based on power meter |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | measurement after    |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error and the  |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior ratio   |
|                      |                      | but is not RSS for   |
|                      |                      | simplicity. The      |
|                      |                      | absolute error of    |
|                      |                      | the AWGN Ioc is not  |
|                      |                      | important for any    |
|                      |                      | tests in clause 7    |
|                      |                      | but is specified as  |
|                      |                      | 1.0 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.1A Single Link   | Same as 9.3.1        | Same as 9.3.1        |
| Performance - AWGN   |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions, 64QAM    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.1B Single Link   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Performance - AWGN   | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in DPCH\_Ec ratio    |
| Propagation          | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
| Conditions, DC-HSDPA |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| requirements         | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | in                   |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | and                  |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ${\                  |
|                      | dB                   | hat{I}}_{\text{or}2} |
|                      |                      | /I_{\text{oc}}$based |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | on power meter       |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | measurement after    |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error and the  |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior ratio   |
|                      |                      | but is not RSS for   |
|                      |                      | simplicity. The      |
|                      |                      | absolute error of    |
|                      |                      | the AWGN Ioc is not  |
|                      |                      | important for any    |
|                      |                      | tests in clause 7    |
|                      |                      | but is specified as  |
|                      |                      | 1.0 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.1BA Single Link  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Performance - AWGN   | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in DPCH\_Ec ratio    |
| Propagation          | ±0.3 dB              |                      |
| Conditions,          |                      | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| DB-DC-HSDPA          | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | in                   |
| requirements         | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      | ±0.3 dB              | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | and                  |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ${\                  |
|                      | dB                   | hat{I}}_{\text{or}2} |
|                      |                      | /I_{\text{oc}}$based |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | on power meter       |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | measurement after    |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error is the |
|                      |                      | sum of the           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error and the  |
|                      |                      | DPCH\_Ec/Ior ratio   |
|                      |                      | but is not RSS for   |
|                      |                      | simplicity. The      |
|                      |                      | absolute error of    |
|                      |                      | the AWGN Ioc is not  |
|                      |                      | important for any    |
|                      |                      | tests in clause 7    |
|                      |                      | but is specified as  |
|                      |                      | 1.0 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.1C Single Link   | ${\hat{              | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Performance - AWGN   | I}}_{\text{or}}/{I_{ | in DPCH\_Ec ratio    |
| Propagation          | \text{oc}}}_{1}$,${\ |                      |
| Conditions,          | hat{I}}_{\text{or}}/ | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| Periodically Varying | {I_{\text{oc}}}_{2}$ | in                   |
| Radio Conditions     | ±0.3 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}_{1}}$, | based on power meter |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}_{2}}$  | measurement after    |
|                      | ±1.0 dB              | the combiner         |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | Overall error is the |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | sum of the           |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | $I_{                 | ratio error and the  |
|                      | \text{oc}}$Linearity | DPCH\_Ec/Ior ratio   |
|                      | within the           | but is not RSS for   |
|                      | applicable range of  | simplicity. The      |
|                      | 10dB 1.0 dB          | absolute error of    |
|                      |                      | the AWGN Ioc is      |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB. |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | The linearity of the |
|                      |                      | AWGN Ioc is          |
|                      |                      | specified as 1.0 dB  |
|                      |                      | (±0.5dB)             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.2 Single Link    | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Performance - Fading | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| propagation          | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| conditions           |                      | Worst case gain      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | uncertainty due to   |
|                      | dB                   | the fader from the   |
|                      |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | per output           |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      |                      | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^) |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.2A Single Link   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Performance - Fading | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| Propagation          | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| Conditions, DC-HSDPA |                      | Worst case gain      |
| requirements         | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | uncertainty due to   |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | the fader from the   |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | calibrated static    |
|                      |                      | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | per output           |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.52 + 0.32) 0.5 |
|                      |                      | = 0.6 dB             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.2AA Single Link  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Performance - Fading | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| Propagation          | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| Conditions,          |                      | Worst case gain      |
| DB-DC-HSDPA          | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | uncertainty due to   |
| requirements         | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | the fader from the   |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | calibrated static    |
|                      |                      | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | per output           |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.52 + 0.32) 0.5 |
|                      |                      | = 0.6 dB             |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.2B Single Link   | Same as 9.3.2        | Same as 9.3.2        |
| Performance - Fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions, 64QAM    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.3 Open Loop      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.3 dB uncertainty   |
| Diversity            | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in                   |
| Performance - AWGN   | ±0.5 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| propagation          |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions           | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | for each antenna     |
|                      | dB                   | output based on      |
|                      |                      | power meter          |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | measurement after    |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | the combiner         |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      |                      | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.3^2^ + 0.3^2^) |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.424 dB.    |
|                      |                      | Round up to 0.5 dB   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.4 Open Loop      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | In addition the same |
| Diversity            | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | ±0.3 dB              |
| Performance - Fading | ±0.8 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
| propagation          |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions           | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | be RSS.              |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.5^2^  |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.768 dB. Round up   |
|                      |                      | to 0.8 dB            |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.5 Closed Loop    | Same as 9.3.3        |                      |
| Diversity            |                      |                      |
| Performance - AWGN   |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.6 Closed Loop    | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| Diversity            |                      |                      |
| Performance - Fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7A, MIMO         | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Single stream fading |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7B MIMO          | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream fading   |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7C MIMO          | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream fading   |                      |                      |
| conditions-- UE      |                      |                      |
| categories 19-20     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7D MIMO          | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream static   |                      |                      |
| orthogonal           |                      |                      |
| conditions -- UE     |                      |                      |
| categories 15-20     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7E MIMO          | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| performance          |                      |                      |
| --Reporting of       |                      |                      |
| Channel Quality      |                      |                      |
| indicator - Dual     |                      |                      |
| stream static        |                      |                      |
| orthogonal           |                      |                      |
| conditions -- UE     |                      |                      |
| categories 19-20     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7F MIMO          | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Single stream fading |                      |                      |
| conditions --        |                      |                      |
| Asymmetric CPICHs    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7G MIMO          | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream fading   |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
| --Asymmetric CPICHs  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7H MIMO          | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream fading   |                      |                      |
| conditions-- UE      |                      |                      |
| categories 19-20     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7I MIMO          | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream static   |                      |                      |
| orthogonal           |                      |                      |
| conditions -- UE     |                      |                      |
| categories 15-20     |                      |                      |
| -Asymmetric CPICHs   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7J MIMO          | Same as 9.3.4        |                      |
| performance          |                      |                      |
| --Reporting of       |                      |                      |
| Channel Quality      |                      |                      |
| indicator - Dual     |                      |                      |
| stream static        |                      |                      |
| orthogonal           |                      |                      |
| conditions -- UE     |                      |                      |
| categories 19-20     |                      |                      |
| --Asymmetric CPICHs  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.1 Single link    | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| Performance          | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | Worst case gain      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | uncertainty due to   |
|                      | dB                   | the fader from the   |
|                      |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | per output           |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      |                      | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^) |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.1A Single link   | Same as 9.4.1        | Same as 9.4.1        |
| Performance --       |                      |                      |
| Enhanced Performance |                      |                      |
| Requirements Type 1  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.2 Open loop      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Worst case gain      |
| diversity            | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | uncertainty due to   |
| performance          | ±0.8 dB              | the fader from the   |
|                      |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | dB                   | per output           |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $\frac{E_            | In addition the same |
|                      | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | ±0.1 dB              | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.52 + 0.52 +    |
|                      |                      | 0.32) 0.5 = 0.768    |
|                      |                      | dB. Round up to 0.8  |
|                      |                      | dB                   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.2A Open loop     | Same as 9.4.2        | Same as 9.4.2        |
| diversity            |                      |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Enhanced Performance |                      |                      |
| Requirements Type 1  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.3 HS-SCCH Type 3 | Same as 9.4.2        | Same as 9.4.2        |
| performance          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.3A HS-SCCH Type  | Same as 9.4.2        | Same as 9.4.2        |
| 3 Performance -STTD  |                      |                      |
| disabled- Asymmetric |                      |                      |
| CPICHs               |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.3B HS-SCCH Type  | Same as 9.4.2        | Same as 9.4.2        |
| 3 Performance -STTD  |                      |                      |
| enabled- Asymmetric  |                      |                      |
| CPICHs               |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.4 HS-SCCH Type 3 | Same as 9.4.2        | Same as 9.4.2        |
| performance for MIMO |                      |                      |
| only with            |                      |                      |
| single-stream        |                      |                      |
| restriction          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.4A HS-SCCH Type  | Same as 9.4.2        | Same as 9.4.2        |
| 3 performance for    |                      |                      |
| MIMO only with       |                      |                      |
| single-stream        |                      |                      |
| restriction-Enhanced |                      |                      |
| Performance          |                      |                      |
| Requirements Type 1  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.4B HS-SCCH Type  | Same as 9.4.2        | Same as 9.4.2        |
| 3 Performance for    |                      |                      |
| MIMO only with       |                      |                      |
| single-stream        |                      |                      |
| restriction-STTD     |                      |                      |
| disabled-asymmetric  |                      |                      |
| CPICHs               |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.4C HS-SCCH Type  | Same as 9.4.2        | Same as 9.4.2        |
| 3 Performance for    |                      |                      |
| MIMO only with       |                      |                      |
| single-stream        |                      |                      |
| restriction-STTD     |                      |                      |
| disabled-asymmetric  |                      |                      |
| CPICHs-Enhanced      |                      |                      |
| Performance          |                      |                      |
| Requirements Type 1  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.4D HS-SCCH Type  | Same as 9.4.2        | Same as 9.4.2        |
| 3 Performance for    |                      |                      |
| MIMO only with       |                      |                      |
| single-stream        |                      |                      |
| restriction-STTD     |                      |                      |
| enabled-asymmetric   |                      |                      |
| CPICHs               |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.4.4E HS-SCCH Type  | Same as 9.4.2        | Same as 9.4.2        |
| 3 Performance for    |                      |                      |
| MIMO only with       |                      |                      |
| single-stream        |                      |                      |
| restriction-STTD     |                      |                      |
| enabled-asymmetric   |                      |                      |
| CPICHs-Enhanced      |                      |                      |
| Performance          |                      |                      |
| Requirements Type 1  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.5.1 HS-SCCH-less   | Same as 9.2.1A       | Same as 9.2.1A       |
| demodulation of      |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH              |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.5.1A HS-SCCH-less  | Same as 9.2.1A       | Same as 9.2.1A       |
| demodulation of      |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH, Enhanced    |                      |                      |
| Performance          |                      |                      |
| Requirements Type 1  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.6.1 Single link    | Same as 9.2.1A       | Same as 9.2.1A       |
| HS-DSCH Demodulation |                      |                      |
| performance in       |                      |                      |
| CELL\_FACH state     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.6.2 Single link    | Same as 9.2.1A       | Same as 9.2.1A       |
| HS-SCCH Detection    |                      |                      |
| performance in       |                      |                      |
| CELL\_FACH state     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

F.1.7 Performance requirement (E-DCH)
-------------------------------------

Table F.1.7: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for Performance
Requirements (E-DCH)

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Clause               | Maximum Test System  | Derivation of Test   |
|                      | Uncertainty          | System Uncertainty   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.1L Single Link   | 0.76 dB for          |                      |
| Enhanced Performance | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |                      |
| Type 3i              | or}}/I_{\text{oc}}'$ |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 0.17 dB for DIP1,    |                      |
|                      | DIP2                 |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | 0.1 dB for Ec/Ior    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.1.1 Detection   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| of E-DCH HARQ ACK    | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| Indicator Channel    | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| (E-HICH) Single Link |                      | Worst case gain      |
| Performance (10 ms   | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | uncertainty due to   |
| TTI)                 | dB                   | the fader from the   |
|                      |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | dB                   | per output           |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      |                      | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^) |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.1.1A Detection  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| of E-DCH HARQ ACK    | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | in Ec/Ior ratio      |
| Indicator Channel    | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| (E-HICH) Single Link |                      | Worst case gain      |
| Performance (10 ms   | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | uncertainty due to   |
| TTI, Type 1)         | dB                   | the fader from the   |
|                      |                      | calibrated static    |
|                      | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | dB                   | per output           |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | In addition the same |
|                      |                      | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is                   |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^ )   |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB       |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.1.2 Detection   | Same as in 10.2.1.1  | Same as 10.2.1.1     |
| of E-DCH HARQ ACK    |                      |                      |
| Indicator Channel    |                      |                      |
| (E-HICH) Single Link |                      |                      |
| Performance (2 ms    |                      |                      |
| TTI)                 |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.1.2A Detection  | Same as in 10.2.1.1  | Same as 10.2.1.1     |
| of E-DCH HARQ ACK    |                      |                      |
| Indicator Channel    |                      |                      |
| (E-HICH) Single Link |                      |                      |
| Performance (2 ms    |                      |                      |
| TTI, Type 1)         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.2.1.1 Detection | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Worst case gain      |
| of E-DCH HARQ ACK    | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | uncertainty due to   |
| Indicator Channel    | ±0.6 dB              | the fader from the   |
| (E-HICH) in          |                      | calibrated static    |
| Inter-Cell handover  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
| conditions -- RLS    | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | per output           |
| not containing the   | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| serving E-DCH cell   |                      | In addition the same |
| (10 ms TTI)          | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | dB                   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error per    |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | or                   |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^) |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB.      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.2.1.1A          | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Worst case gain      |
| Detection of E-DCH   | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | uncertainty due to   |
| HARQ ACK Indicator   | ±0.6 dB              | the fader from the   |
| Channel (E-HICH) in  |                      | calibrated static    |
| Inter-Cell handover  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
| conditions -- RLS    | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | per output           |
| not containing the   | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| serving E-DCH cell   |                      | In addition the same |
| (10 ms TTI, Type 1)  | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | dB                   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error per    |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | or                   |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^) |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 0.6 dB.      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.2.1.2 Detection | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   |
| of E-DCH HARQ ACK    |                      |                      |
| Indicator Channel    |                      |                      |
| (E-HICH) in          |                      |                      |
| Inter-Cell handover  |                      |                      |
| conditions -- RLS    |                      |                      |
| not containing the   |                      |                      |
| serving E-DCH cell   |                      |                      |
| (2 ms TTI)           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.2.1.2A          | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   |
| Detection of E-DCH   |                      |                      |
| HARQ ACK Indicator   |                      |                      |
| Channel (E-HICH) in  |                      |                      |
| Inter-Cell handover  |                      |                      |
| conditions -- RLS    |                      |                      |
| not containing the   |                      |                      |
| serving E-DCH cell   |                      |                      |
| (2 ms TTI, Type 1)   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.2.2.1 Detection | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   |
| of E-DCH HARQ ACK    |                      |                      |
| Indicator Channel    |                      |                      |
| (E-HICH) in          |                      |                      |
| Inter-Cell handover  |                      |                      |
| conditions -- RLS    |                      |                      |
| containing the       |                      |                      |
| serving E-DCH cell   |                      |                      |
| (10 ms TTI)          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.2.2.1A          | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   |
| Detection of E-DCH   |                      |                      |
| HARQ ACK Indicator   |                      |                      |
| Channel (E-HICH) in  |                      |                      |
| Inter-Cell handover  |                      |                      |
| conditions -- RLS    |                      |                      |
| containing the       |                      |                      |
| serving E-DCH cell   |                      |                      |
| (10 ms TTI, Type 1)  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.2.2.2 Detection | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   |
| of E-DCH HARQ ACK    |                      |                      |
| Indicator Channel    |                      |                      |
| (E-HICH) in          |                      |                      |
| Inter-Cell handover  |                      |                      |
| conditions -- RLS    |                      |                      |
| containing the       |                      |                      |
| serving E-DCH cell   |                      |                      |
| (2 ms TTI)           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.2.2.2.2A          | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   |
| Detection of E-DCH   |                      |                      |
| HARQ ACK Indicator   |                      |                      |
| Channel (E-HICH) in  |                      |                      |
| Inter-Cell handover  |                      |                      |
| conditions -- RLS    |                      |                      |
| containing the       |                      |                      |
| serving E-DCH cell   |                      |                      |
| (2 ms TTI, Type 1)   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.3.1.1 Detection   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 10.2.1.1     |
| of E-DCH Relative    | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Grant Channel        | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| (E-RGCH) Single Link |                      |                      |
| Performance (10 ms   | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
| TTI)                 | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.3.1.1A Detection  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 10.2.1.1     |
| of E-DCH Relative    | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Grant Channel        | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| (E-RGCH) Single Link |                      |                      |
| Performance (10 ms   | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
| TTI, Type 1)         | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.3.1.2 Detection   | Same as 10.3.1.1     | Same as in 10.2.1.1  |
| of E-DCH Relative    |                      |                      |
| Grant Channel        |                      |                      |
| (E-RGCH) Single Link |                      |                      |
| Performance (2 ms    |                      |                      |
| TTI)                 |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.3.1.2A Detection  | Same as 10.3.1.1     | Same as in 10.2.1.1  |
| of E-DCH Relative    |                      |                      |
| Grant Channel        |                      |                      |
| (E-RGCH) Single Link |                      |                      |
| Performance (2 ms    |                      |                      |
| TTI, Type 1)         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.3.2 Detection of  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   |
| E-DCH Relative Grant | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Channel (E-RGCH) in  | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| Inter-Cell Handover  |                      |                      |
| conditions           | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |                      |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.3.2A Detection of | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | Same as 10.2.2.1.1   |
| E-DCH Relative Grant | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Channel (E-RGCH) in  | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| Inter-Cell Handover  |                      |                      |
| conditions (Type 1)  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |                      |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.4.1 Demodulation  | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 10.2.1.1     |
| of E-DCH Absolute    | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Grant Channel        | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| (E-AGCH) Single Link |                      |                      |
| Performance          | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 10.4.1A Demodulation | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    | Same as 10.2.1.1     |
| of E-DCH Absolute    | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
| Grant Channel        | ±0.6 dB              |                      |
| (E-AGCH) Single Link |                      |                      |
| Performance (Type 1) | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1  |                      |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

F.1.8 Performance requirement (MBMS)
------------------------------------

Table F.1.8: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for Performance
Requirements (MBMS)

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Clause               | Maximum Test System  | Derivation of Test   |
|                      | Uncertainty          | System Uncertainty   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 11.2 Demodulation of | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| MTCH                 | dB                   | in\                  |
|                      |                      | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ratio                |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | Worst case gain      |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | uncertainty due to   |
|                      | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | the fader from the   |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | calibrated static    |
|                      |                      | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | per output.          |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | In addition the same |
|                      |                      | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      | or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.5^2^  |
|                      |                      | + 0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^)   |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 1.0 dB, but  |
|                      |                      | per output           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{o  |
|                      |                      | r}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$, |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | or                   |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | the error is (0.5^2^ |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.6 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 11.2A Demodulation   | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| of MTCH - Enhanced   | dB                   | in\                  |
| Performance          |                      | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior      |
| Requirements Type 1  | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ratio                |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | Worst case gain      |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | uncertainty due to   |
|                      | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | the fader from the   |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | calibrated static    |
|                      |                      | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | per output.          |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | In addition the same |
|                      |                      | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      | or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.5^2^  |
|                      |                      | + 0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^)   |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 1.0 dB, but  |
|                      |                      | per output           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{o  |
|                      |                      | r}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$, |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | or                   |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | the error is (0.5^2^ |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.6 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 11.3 Demodulation of | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 | 0.1 dB uncertainty   |
| MTCH and cell        | dB                   | in\                  |
| identification       |                      | S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior      |
|                      | $I_{\text{oc}}$ ±1.0 | ratio                |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | Worst case gain      |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | uncertainty due to   |
|                      | or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | the fader from the   |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | calibrated static    |
|                      |                      | profile is ±0.5 dB   |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | per output.          |
|                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |                      |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | In addition the same |
|                      |                      | ±0.3 dB              |
|                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      | or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      | ±0.6 dB              | ratio error as 7.2.  |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | These are            |
|                      |                      | uncorrelated so can  |
|                      |                      | be RSS.              |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Overall error in     |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text    |
|                      |                      | {or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | is (0.5^2^ + 0.5^2^  |
|                      |                      | + 0.5^2^ + 0.3^2^)   |
|                      |                      | ^0.5^ = 1.0 dB, but  |
|                      |                      | per output           |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{o  |
|                      |                      | r}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$, |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | or                   |
|                      |                      | ${\hat{I}}_{\text{   |
|                      |                      | or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                      |                      | the error is (0.5^2^ |
|                      |                      | + 0.3^2^) ^0.5^ =    |
|                      |                      | 0.6 dB.              |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

F.2 Test Tolerances (This clause is informative)
================================================

The Test Tolerances defined in this clause have been used to relax the
Minimum Requirements in the present document to derive the Test
Requirements.

The Test Tolerances are derived from Test System uncertainties,
regulatory requirements and criticality to system performance. As a
result, the Test Tolerances may sometimes be set to zero.

The test tolerances should not be modified for any reason e.g. to take
account of commonly known test system errors (such as mismatch, cable
loss, etc.).

F.2.1 Transmitter
-----------------

Table F.2.1: Test Tolerances for transmitter tests

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Clause                           | Test Tolerance                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2 Maximum Output Power         | 0.7 dB                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2A Maximum Output Power with   | 0.7 dB                           |
| HS-DPCCH (Release 5 only)        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2AA Maximum Output Power with  | 0.7 dB                           |
| HS-DPCCH (Release 6 and later)   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2AB Maximum Output Power for   | 0.7 dB                           |
| UL OLTD                          |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2AC Maximum Output Power for   | 0.7 dB                           |
| UL CLTD activation state 1       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2AD Maximum Output Power for   | 0.7 dB                           |
| UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2B Maximum Output Power with   | 0.7 dB                           |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH               |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2BA UE Maximum Output Power    | 0.7 dB                           |
| for DC-HSUPA (QPSK)              |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2BB UE Maximum Output Power    | 0.7 dB                           |
| for DC-HSUPA (16QAM)             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2BC Maximum Output Power with  | 0.7 dB                           |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for UL OLTD   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2BD Maximum Output Power with  | 0.7 dB                           |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for UL CLTD   |                                  |
| activation state 1               |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.BE Maximum Output Power with   | 0.7 dB                           |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH for UL CLTD   |                                  |
| activation state 2 and 3         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2C UE relative code domain     | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| power accuracy                   |                                  |
|                                  | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2CA **UE relative code domain  | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| power accuracy for UL OLTD**     |                                  |
|                                  | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2CB **UE relative code domain  | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| power accuracy for UL CLTD       |                                  |
| activation state 1**             | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2CC **UE relative code domain  | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| power accuracy for UL CLTD       |                                  |
| activation state 2 and 3**       | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2D UE Relative Code Domain     | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| Power Accuracy with HS-DPCCH and |                                  |
| E-DCH                            | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2DA UE Relative Code Domain    | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| Power Accuracy for DC-HSUPA with |                                  |
| QPSK                             | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2DB **UE Relative Code Domain  | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and  |                                  |
| E-DCH for UL OLTD**              | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2DC **UE Relative Code Domain  | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and  |                                  |
| E-DCH for UL CLTD activation     | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
| state 1**                        |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2DD **UE Relative Code Domain  | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and  |                                  |
| E-DCH for UL CLTD activation     | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
| state 2 and 3**                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2E UE Relative Code Domain     | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and  |                                  |
| E-DCH with 16QAM                 | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -20 dB ≥ -30 dB CDP 0.5 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2 EA UE relative code domain   | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| power accuracy for DC-HSUPA      |                                  |
| using HS-DPCCH and E-DCH with    | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
| 16QAM                            |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -20 dB ≥ -30 dB CDP 0.5 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2 EB UE Relative Code Domain   | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and  |                                  |
| E-DCH with 16QAM for UL OLTD     | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -20 dB ≥ -30 dB CDP 0.5 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2 EC UE Relative Code Domain   | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and  |                                  |
| E-DCH with 16QAM for UL CLTD     | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
| activation state 1               |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -20 dB ≥ -30 dB CDP 0.5 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.2 ED UE Relative Code Domain   | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB CDP 0.2 dB     |
| Power Accuracy for HS-DPCCH and  |                                  |
| E-DCH with 16QAM for UL CLTD     | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB CDP 0.3 dB   |
| activation state 2 and 3         |                                  |
|                                  | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB CDP 0.4 dB   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For -20 dB ≥ -30 dB CDP 0.5 dB   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.3 Frequency error              | 10 Hz                            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.3A Frequency Error for         | 10 Hz per carrier                |
| DC-HSUPA                         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.3B Frequency error for UL OLTD | 10 Hz                            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.3C Frequency error for UL CLTD | 10 Hz                            |
| Activation state 1               |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.3D Frequency error for UL CLTD | 10 Hz                            |
| Activation state 2 and 3         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.1 Open loop power control in | 1.0 dB                           |
| uplink                           |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.1A Open Loop Power Control   | 1.0 dB per carrier               |
| in the Uplink for DC-HSUPA       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.2 Inner loop power control   | 0.1 dB (1 dB and 0 dB range)     |
| in the uplink                    |                                  |
|                                  | 0.15 dB (2 dB range)             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.2 dB (3 dB range               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB (\> 3 dB range))          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.2A Inner Loop Power Control  | 0.1 dB per carrier (1 dB and 0   |
| in the Uplink for DC-HSUPA       | dB range)                        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.15 dB per carrier (2 dB range) |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.2 dB per carrier (3 dB range   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB per carrier (\> 3 dB      |
|                                  | range))                          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.2B Inner Loop Power Control  | 0.1 dB (1 dB and 0 dB range)     |
| in the Uplink for UL OLTD        |                                  |
|                                  | 0.15 dB (2 dB range)             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.2 dB (3 dB range               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB (\> 3 dB range))          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.2C Inner Loop Power Control  | 0.1 dB (1 dB and 0 dB range)     |
| in the Uplink for UL CLTD        |                                  |
| activation state 1               | 0.15 dB (2 dB range)             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.2 dB (3 dB range               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB (\> 3 dB range))          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.2D Inner Loop Power Control  | 0.1 dB (1 dB and 0 dB range)     |
| in the Uplink for UL CLTD        |                                  |
| activation state 2 and 3         | 0.15 dB (2 dB range)             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.2 dB (3 dB range               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB (\> 3 dB range))          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.3 Minimum Output Power       | 1.0 dB                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.3A Minimum Output Power for  | 1.0 dB                           |
| DC-HSUPA                         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.3C Minimum Output Power for  | 1.0 dB                           |
| UL CLTD Activation state 1       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.3D Minimum Output Power for  | 1.0 dB                           |
| UL CLTD Activation state 2 and 3 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.4 Out-of-synchronisation     | 0.4 dB                           |
| handling of output power:        |                                  |
| $\ \frac{                        |                                  |
| \text{DPCCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.4 Out-of-synchronisation     | 0 ms                             |
| handling of output power:        |                                  |
| transmit ON/OFF time             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.4A Out-of-synchronisation    | 0.4 dB                           |
| handling of output power for a   |                                  |
| UE which supports type 1 for     |                                  |
| DCH:$\ \frac{                    |                                  |
| \text{DPCCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.4 A Out-of-synchronisation   | 0 ms                             |
| handling of output power for a   |                                  |
| UE which supports type 1 for     |                                  |
| DCH: transmit ON/OFF time        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.4B Out-of-synchronisation    | 0.4 dB                           |
| handling of output power for UL  |                                  |
| OLTD:                            |                                  |
| $\ \frac{                        |                                  |
| \text{DPCCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.4B Out-of-synchronisation    | 0 ms                             |
| handling of output power for UL  |                                  |
| OLTD: transmit ON/OFF time       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.4C Out-of-synchronisation    | 0.4 dB                           |
| handling of output power for UL  |                                  |
| CLTD activation state 1:         |                                  |
| $\ \frac{                        |                                  |
| \text{DPCCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.4C Out-of-synchronisation    | 0 ms                             |
| handling of output power for UL  |                                  |
| CLTD activation state 1:         |                                  |
| transmit ON/OFF time             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.4D Out-of-synchronisation    | 0.4 dB                           |
| handling of output power for UL  |                                  |
| CLTD activation state 2 and 3:   |                                  |
| $\ \frac{                        |                                  |
| \text{DPCCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.4D Out-of-synchronisation    | 0 ms                             |
| handling of output power for UL  |                                  |
| CLTD activation state 2 and 3:   |                                  |
| transmit ON/OFF time             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.4.5 Out of quality handling of | 0.4dB                            |
| TPI for UL CLTD activation state |                                  |
| 1                                |                                  |
| $\ \frac{F -                     |                                  |
| \text{TPICH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.5.1 Transmit OFF power         | 1.0 dB                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.5.2 Transmit ON/OFF time mask  | On power +0.7 dB / -1.0 dB       |
| (dynamic case)                   |                                  |
|                                  | Off power TT 1.0 dB              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.6 Change of TFC: power control | 0.3 dB                           |
| step size                        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5,6AA Change of TFC for UL OLTD  | 0.3 dB                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5,6AB Change of TFC for UL CLTD  | 0.3 dB                           |
| activation state 1               |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.6AC Change of TFC for UL CLTD  | 0.3 dB                           |
| activation state 2 and 3         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.7 Power setting in uplink      | See subset of 5.4.2              |
| compressed mode: - UE output     |                                  |
| power                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.7AA Power setting in uplink    | A subset of 5.4.2.               |
| compressed mode for UL OLTD      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.7A HS-DPCCH                    | 0.1 dB (1 dB and 0 dB range)     |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.15 dB (2 dB range)             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.2 dB (3 dB range)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB (\> 3 dB range)           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.7BA HS-DPCCH power control for | 0.1 dB (1 dB and 0 dB range)     |
| UL OLTD                          |                                  |
|                                  | 0.15 dB (2 dB range)             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.2 dB (3 dB range)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB (\> 3 dB range)           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.7BB HS-DPCCH power control for | 0.1 dB (1 dB and 0 dB range)     |
| UL CLTD activation state 1       |                                  |
|                                  | 0.15 dB (2 dB range)             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.2 dB (3 dB range)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB (\> 3 dB range)           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.7BC HS-DPCCH power control for | 0.1 dB (1 dB and 0 dB range)     |
| UL CLTD activation state 2 and 3 |                                  |
|                                  | 0.15 dB (2 dB range)             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.2 dB (3 dB range)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB (\> 3 dB range)           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.8 Occupied Bandwidth           | 0 kHz                            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.8A Occupied Bandwidth for      | 0 kHz                            |
| DC-HSUPA                         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.8C Occupied Bandwidth (OBW)    | 0 kHz                            |
| for UL OLTD                      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.8C Occupied Bandwidth (OBW)    | 0 kHz                            |
| for UL CLTD Activation state 1   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9 Spectrum emission mask       | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
|                                  | requirements for Band II, Band   |
|                                  | IV, Band V and Band X only)      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9A Spectrum emission mask with | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
| HS-DPCCH                         | requirements for Band II, Band   |
|                                  | IV, Band V and Band X only)      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9AA Spectrum Emission Mask     | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
| with HS-DPCCH for UL OLTD        | requirements for Band II, Band   |
|                                  | IV, Band V and Band X only)      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9AB Spectrum Emission Mask     | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
| with HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD        | requirements for Band II, Band   |
| activation state 1               | IV, Band V and Band X only)      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9AC Spectrum Emission Mask     | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
| with HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD        | requirements for Band II, Band   |
| activation state 2 and 3         | IV, Band V and Band X only)      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9B Spectrum emission mask with | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
| E-DCH                            | requirements for Band II, Band   |
|                                  | IV and Band V only)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9BA Spectrum Emission Mask     | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
| with E-DCH for UL OLTD           | requirements for Band II, Band   |
|                                  | IV and Band V only)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9BB Spectrum Emission Mask     | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
| with E-DCH for UL CLTD           | requirements for Band II, Band   |
| activation state 1               | IV and Band V only)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9BC Spectrum Emission Mask     | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
| with E-DCH for UL CLTD           | requirements for Band II, Band   |
| activation state 2 and 3         | IV and Band V only)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9C Additional Spectrum         | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
| Emission Mask for DC-HSUPA       | requirements for band II, IV, V  |
| (QPSK)                           | and X only)                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.9D Additional Spectrum         | 1.5 dB (0 dB for additional      |
| Emission Mask for DC-HSUPA       | requirements for band II, IV, V  |
| (16QAM)                          | and X only)                      |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10 ACLR                        | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10A ACLR with HS-DPCCH         | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10AA Adjacent Channel Leakage  | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
| Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH |                                  |
| for UL OLTD                      | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10AB Adjacent Channel Leakage  | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
| Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH |                                  |
| for UL CLTD Activation state 1   | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10AC Adjacent Channel Leakage  | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
| Power Ratio (ACLR) with HS-DPCCH |                                  |
| for UL CLTD Activation state 2   | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
| and 3                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10B ACLR with E-DCH            | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10BA Adjacent Channel Leakage  | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
| Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH    |                                  |
| for UL OLTD                      | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10BB Adjacent Channel Leakage  | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
| Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH    |                                  |
| for UL CLTD Activation state 1   | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10BC Adjacent Channel Leakage  | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
| Power Ratio (ACLR) with E-DCH    |                                  |
| for UL CLTD Activation state 2   | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
| and 3                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10C ACLR with E-DCH for        | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
| DC-HSUPA (QPSK)                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.10D ACLR with E-DCH for        | 0.8 dB for ratio                 |
| DC-HSUPA (16QAM)                 |                                  |
|                                  | 0.0 dB for absolute power        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.11 Spurious emissions          | 0 dB                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.11A Spurious emissions for     | 0 dB                             |
| DC-HSUPA                         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.11B Spurious Emissions for UL  | 0 dB                             |
| OLTD                             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.11C Spurious emissions for UL  | 0 dB                             |
| CLTD Activation state 1          |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.11D Spurious emissions for UL  | 0 dB                             |
| CLTD Activation state 2 and 3    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.12 Transmit Intermodulation    | 0 dB                             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.12A Transmit Intermodulation   | 0 dB                             |
| for DC‑HSUPA                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.12B Transmit intermodulation   | 0 dB                             |
| for UL OLTD                      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.1 Transmit modulation: EVM  | 0%                               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.1A Transmit modulation: EVM | 0%                               |
| with HS-DPCCH                    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.1AA Transmit modulation:    | 0% EVM                           |
| EVM and phase discontinuity with |                                  |
| HS-DPCCH                         | 6 degress phase discontinuity    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.1AB Transmit modulation:    | 0% EVM                           |
| EVM and phase discontinuity with |                                  |
| HS-DPCCH for UL OLTD             | 6 degress phase discontinuity    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.1AC Transmit modulation:    | 0% EVM                           |
| EVM and phase discontinuity with |                                  |
| HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD Activation  | 6 degress phase discontinuity    |
| state 1                          |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.1AD Transmit modulation:    | 0% EVM                           |
| EVM and phase discontinuity with |                                  |
| HS-DPCCH for UL CLTD Activation  | 6 degress phase discontinuity    |
| state 2 and 3                    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.1AAA EVM and IQ origin      | ±0.5 dB                          |
| offset for HS-DPCCH with E-DCH   |                                  |
| with 16 QAM                      | (for IQ origin offset)           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.2 Transmit modulation: peak | 1.0 dB                           |
| code domain error                |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.2A Relative Code Domain     | ±0.5 dB                          |
| Error                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.2B Relative Code Domain     | ±0.5 dB                          |
| Error with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.2B Relative Code Domain     | ±0.5 dB                          |
| Error with HS-DPCCH and E-DCH    |                                  |
| for DC-HSUPA                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.2C Relative Code Domain     | ±0.5 dB                          |
| Error for HS-DPCCH and E-DCH     |                                  |
| with 16QAM                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.3 UE phase discontinuity    | 0% for EVM                       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  | 10 Hz for Frequency error        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  | 6 degree for Phase discontinuity |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.4 PRACH preamble quality    | 0%                               |
| (EVM)                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.4 PRACH preamble quality    | 10 Hz                            |
| (Frequency error)                |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 5.13.5 In-band emission for      | 0.8 dB                           |
| DC-HSUPA                         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

F.2.2 Receiver
--------------

Table F.2.2: Test Tolerances for receiver tests

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
  Clause                                                                                   Test Tolerance
  6.2 Reference sensitivity level                                                          0.7 dB for Ior and Ec
  6.2A Reference sensitivity level for DC-HSDPA                                            0.7 dB for Ior and Ec (for both DC-HSDPA cells)
  6.2B Reference sensitivity level for DB-DC-HSDPA                                         0.7 dB for Ior and Ec (for both DB-DC-HSDPA cells)
  6.2C Reference sensitivity level for single band 4C-HSDPA                                0.7 dB for Ior and Ec (for all 3C-HSDPA cells)
  6.2D Reference sensitivity level for Dual band 4C-HSDPA                                  0.7 dB for Ior and Ec (for all 4C-HSDPA cells)
  6.2DA Reference sensitivity level for Dual band 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier)                     0.7 dB for Ior and Ec (for all 3C-HSDPA cells)
  6.3 Maximum input level:                                                                 0.7 dB for Ior
  6.3A Maximum Input Level for HS-PDSCH Reception (16QAM)                                  0.7 dB for Ior
  6.3B Maximum Input Level for HS-PDSCH Reception (64QAM)                                  0.7 dB for Ior
  6.3C Maximum Input Level for DC-HSDPA Reception (16QAM)                                  0.7 dB for Ior (for both DC-HSDPA cells)
  6.3D Maximum Input Level for DC-HSDPA Reception (64QAM)                                  0.7 dB for Ior (for both DC-HSDPA cells)
  6.3E Maximum Input Level for DB-DC-HSDPA Reception (16QAM)                               0.7 dB for Ior (for both DB-DC-HSDPA cells)
  6.3F Maximum Input Level for DB-DC-HSDPA Reception (64QAM)                               0.7 dB for Ior (for both DB-DC-HSDPA cells)
  6.3G Maximum Input Level for 4C-HSDPA Reception (16QAM)                                  0.7 dB for Ior and Ec (for all 4C-HSDPA cells)
  6.3GA Maximum Input Level for 4C-HSDPA Reception (16QAM) (3 carrier)                     0.7 dB for Ior and Ec (for all 3C-HSDPA cells)
  6.3H Maximum Input Level for 4C-HSDPA Reception (64QAM)                                  0.7 dB for Ior and Ec (for all 4C-HSDPA cells)
  6.3HA Maximum Input Level for 4C-HSDPA Reception (64QAM) (3 carrier)                     0.7 dB for Ior and Ec (for all 3C-HSDPA cells)
  6.4 Adjacent channel selectivity (Rel-99 and Rel-4)                                      0 dB
  6.4A Adjacent channel selectivity (Rel-5 and later releases)                             0 dB
  6.4B Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) for DC-HSDPA                                     0 dB
  6.4C Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) for DB-DC-HSDPA                                  0 dB
  6.5 Blocking characteristics                                                             0 dB
  6.5A Blocking characteristics for DC-HSDPA                                               0 dB
  6.5B Blocking characteristics for DB-DC-HSDPA                                            0 dB
  6.5C Blocking characteristics for DC-HSUPA                                               0 dB
  6.5D Blocking Characteristics for single Uplink Single band 4C-HSDPA                     0 dB
  6.5E Blocking Characteristics for dual Uplink Single band 4C-HSDPA                       0 dB
  6.5F Blocking Characteristics for single Uplink Dual band 4C-HSDPA                       0 dB
  6.5FA Blocking Characteristics for single Uplink Dual band 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier)          0 dB
  6.5G Blocking Characteristics for dual Uplink Dual band 4C-HSDPA                         0 dB
  6.5GA Blocking Characteristics for dual Uplink Dual band 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier)            0 dB
  6.6 Spurious Response                                                                    0 dB
  6.6A Spurious Response for DC-HSDPA                                                      0 dB
  6.6B Spurious Response for DB-DC-HSDPA                                                   0 dB
  6.6C Spurious Response for single band 4C-HSDPA                                          0 dB
  6.6D Spurious Response for dual band 4C-HSDPA                                            0 dB
  6.6DA Spurious Response for dual band 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier)                               0 dB
  6.7 Intermodulation Characteristics                                                      0 dB
  6.7A Intermodulation Characteristics for DC-HSDPA                                        0 dB
  6.7B Intermodulation Characteristics for DB-DC-HSDPA                                     0 dB
  6.7C Intermodulation Characteristics for DC-HSUPA                                        0 dB
  6.7D Intermodulation Characteristics for single uplink single band 4C-HSDPA              0 dB
  6.7E Intermodulation Characteristics for single uplink dual band 4C-HSDPA                0 dB
  6.7EA Intermodulation Characteristics for single uplink dual band 4C-HSDPA (3 carrier)   0 dB
  6.8 Spurious emissions                                                                   0 dB
  6.8A Spurious Emissions for DB-DC-HSDPA                                                  0 dB
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------

F.2.3 Performance requirements
------------------------------

Table F.2.3: Test Tolerances for Performance Requirements

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Clause                           | Test Tolerance                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.2 Demodulation in Static       | 0.3 dB for                       |
| Propagation Condition            | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.2.2 Demodulation in Static     | 0.3 dB for                       |
| Propagation Condition/           | ${\ha                            |
| Demodulation of Dedicated        | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| Channel (DCH) when               |                                  |
| (DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config) is        | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
| configured by higher layers      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.3 Demodulation of DCH in       | 0.6 dB for                       |
| multipath Fading Propagation     | ${\ha                            |
| conditions                       | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.3 Demodulation of DCH in       | 0.6 dB for                       |
| multipath Fading Propagation     | ${\ha                            |
| conditions when                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| (DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config) is        |                                  |
| configured by higher layers      | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.4 Demodulation of DCH in       | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Moving Propagation conditions    | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.5 Demodulation of DCH in       | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Birth-Death Propagation          | ${\ha                            |
| conditions                       | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.5A Demodulation of DCH in high | 0.6 dB for                       |
| speed train conditions           | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.6.1 Demodulation of DCH in     | 0.8 dB for                       |
| open loop Transmit diversity     | ${\ha                            |
| mode                             | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.6.2 Demodulation of DCH in     | 0.8 dB for                       |
| closed loop Transmit diversity   | ${\ha                            |
| mode                             | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.6.3, Demodulation of DCH in    | 0.8 dB for                       |
| site selection diversity         | ${\ha                            |
| Transmission power control mode  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.7.1 Demodulation in inter-cell | 0.6 dB for                       |
| soft Handover conditions         | ${\hat                           |
| (Release 5 and earlier)          | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  | and                              |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.7.1A Demodulation in           | 0.6 dB for                       |
| inter-cell soft Handover         | ${\hat                           |
| conditions (Release 6 and later) | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  | and                              |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.7.1B Demodulation in           | 0.6 dB for                       |
| inter-cell soft Handover         | ${\hat                           |
| conditions (Release 6 and later) | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| when (DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config) is   | and                              |
| configured by higher layers      | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.7.2 Combining of TPC commands  | 0 dB for Ior1, Ior2              |
| Test 1                           |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.7.2 Combining of TPC commands  | 0.8 dB for                       |
| Test 2                           | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.7.2A Combining of TPC commands | 0 dB for Ior1, Ior2              |
| Test 1 when                      |                                  |
| (DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config) is        | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
| configured by higher layers      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.7.2A Combining of TPC commands | 0.8 dB for                       |
| Test 2 when                      | ${\ha                            |
| (DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config) is        | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| configured by higher layers      |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.7.3 Combining of reliable TPC  | Test parameters:                 |
| commands from radio links of     |                                  |
| different radio link sets        | 0 dB for                         |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for                         |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for                         |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for DPCH\_Ec1/Ior1          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for DPCH\_Ec2/Ior2          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for DPCH\_Ec3/Ior3          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test requirements:               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for Test 1                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for Test 2                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.7.3A Combining of reliable TPC | Test parameters:                 |
| commands from radio links of     |                                  |
| different radio link sets when   | 0 dB for                         |
| DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config \[10\] is   | ${\hat                           |
| configured by higher layers      | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for                         |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for                         |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for DPCH\_Ec1/Ior1          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for DPCH\_Ec2/Ior2          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for DPCH\_Ec3/Ior3          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test requirements:               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for Test 1                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for Test 2                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.1 Power control in downlink  | 0.6 dB for                       |
| constant BLER target (Release 5  | ${\ha                            |
| and earlier)                     | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For test cases wherein the SS    |
|                                  | response time to DL power        |
|                                  | control commands is delayed by   |
|                                  | one timeslot from the immediate  |
|                                  | response the following           |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                                  | test tolerances apply:           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test 1: 0.4 dB for               |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test 2: 0.3 dB for               |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.1A Power control in downlink | 0.6 dB for                       |
| constant BLER target (Release 6  | ${\ha                            |
| and later)                       | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.1B Power control in the      | 0.6 dB for                       |
| downlink, constant BLER target   | ${\ha                            |
| when DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config is     | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| configured by higher layers      |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.2, Power control in downlink | 0.6 dB for measured DPCH\_Ec/Ior |
| initial convergence (Release 5   | power ratio values during T1 and |
| and earlier)                     | T2.                              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | When the SS response time to DL  |
|                                  | power control commands is        |
|                                  | delayed by one timeslot from the |
|                                  | immediate response the following |
|                                  | measured DPCH\_Ec/Ior power      |
|                                  | ratio value test tolerance       |
|                                  | applies:                         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test 1, 2, 3 and 4: 0.8 dB (=    |
|                                  | rounded 0.75 dB)                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.2A Power control in the      | 0.6 dB for measured DPCH\_Ec/Ior |
| downlink, initial convergence    | power ratio values during T1 and |
| when DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config is     | T2.                              |
| configured by higher layers      |                                  |
|                                  | When the SS response time to DL  |
|                                  | power control commands is        |
|                                  | delayed by one timeslot from the |
|                                  | immediate response the following |
|                                  | measured DPCH\_Ec/Ior power      |
|                                  | ratio value test tolerance       |
|                                  | applies:                         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test 1, 2, 3 and 4: 0.8 dB (=    |
|                                  | rounded 0.75 dB)                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.3A, Power control in         | 0.6 dB for                       |
| downlink: wind up effects        | ${\ha                            |
| (Release 6 and later)            | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.3, Power control in          | 0.6 dB for                       |
| downlink: wind up effects        | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For test cases wherein the SS    |
|                                  | response time to DL power        |
|                                  | control commands is delayed by   |
|                                  | one timeslot from the immediate  |
|                                  | response the following           |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                                  | test tolerance applies:          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test 1: 0.4 dB for               |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.3B Power control in the      | 0.6 dB for                       |
| downlink, wind up effects        | ${\ha                            |
| (Release 6 and later) when       | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config is          |                                  |
| configured by higher layers      | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.4, Power control in the      | 0.6 dB for                       |
| downlink, different transport    | ${\ha                            |
| formats                          | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For test cases where the SS      |
|                                  | response time to DL power        |
|                                  | control commands is delayed by   |
|                                  | one timeslot from the immediate  |
|                                  | response the following           |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                                  | test tolerances apply:           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test 1 stage 1: 0.3 dB for       |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test 1 stage 2: 0.2 dB for       |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.4A Power control in the      | 0.6 dB for                       |
| downlink, different transport    | ${\ha                            |
| formats when                     | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| DL\_DCH\_FET\_Config is          |                                  |
| configured by higher layers      | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For test cases where the SS      |
|                                  | response time to DL power        |
|                                  | control commands is delayed by   |
|                                  | one timeslot from the immediate  |
|                                  | response the following           |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                                  | test tolerances apply:           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test 1 stage 1: 0.3 dB for       |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test 1 stage 2: 0.2 dB for       |
|                                  | $\frac                           |
|                                  | {\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.8.5, Power control in the      | 0.6 dB for                       |
| downlink for F-DPCH              | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for F-DPCH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.9.1 Downlink compressed mode   | 0.6 dB for                       |
| (Release 5 and earlier)          | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.9.1A Downlink compressed mode  | 0.6 dB for                       |
| (Release 6 and later)            | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.10 Blind transport format      | 0.3 dB for                       |
| detection Tests 1, 2, 3          | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.10 Blind transport format      | 0.6 dB for                       |
| detection Tests 4, 5, 6          | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.11 Demodulation of paging      | Test 1: 0.4 dB for               |
| channel (PCH)                    | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
|                                  | Test 2: 0.7 dB for               |
|                                  | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.12 Detection of acquisition    | 0.4 dB for                       |
| indicator (AI)                   | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.12A Detection of E-DCH         | 0.4 dB for                       |
| Acquisition Indicator (E-AI)     | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 7.13 UE UL power control         | DL: No test tolerances applied   |
| operation with discontinuous UL  |                                  |
| DPCCH transmission operation     | UL: \[0.3\[ dB for the measured  |
|                                  | UL power step                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

F.2.4 Requirements for support of RRM
-------------------------------------

Table F.2.4: Test Tolerances for Radio Resource Management Tests

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Clause                           | Test Tolerance                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2 Idle Mode Tasks              |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.2 Cell Re-Selection          |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.2.1 Scenario 1: Single       | [During T1 and T2:]{.underline}  |
| carrier case                     |                                  |
|                                  | +0.60 dB for all Cell 1 and 2    |
|                                  | Ec/Ior ratios                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.50 dB for all Cell 3, 4 ,5, 6 |
|                                  | Ec/Ior ratios                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.03 dB for Ior(3, 4, 5, 6)     |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T1:]{.underline}         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.27 dB for Ior(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.13 dB for Ior(2)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T2:]{.underline}         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.13 dB for Ior(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.27 dB for Ior(2)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.2.2 Scenario 2: Multi        | [Channel 1 during T1 and         |
| carrier case                     | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.80 dB for all Cell 3 and 4    |
|                                  | Ec/Ior ratios                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 1 during                |
|                                  | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.01 dB for Ior(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.01 dB for Ior(3, 4)           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | No change for Ioc(1)             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 1 during                |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.75 dB for Ior(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.05 dB for Ior(3, 4)           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.80 dB for Ioc(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during T1 and         |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.80 dB for all Cell 5 and 6    |
|                                  | Ec/Ior ratios                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during                |
|                                  | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.75 dB for Ior(2)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.05 dB for Ior(5, 6)           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.80 dB for Ioc(2)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during                |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.01 dB for Ior(2)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.01 dB for Ior(5, 6)           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | No change for Ioc(2)             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.3 UTRAN to GSM Cell          |                                  |
| Re-Selection                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.3.1 Scenario 1: Both UTRA    | 0.3 dB for                       |
| and GSM level changed            | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | []{.underline}                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for RXLEV                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.3.2 Scenario 2: Only UTRA    | 0.3 dB for                       |
| level changed                    | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | []{.underline}                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for RXLEV                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.3.3 Scenario 3: HCS with     | 0.3 dB for                       |
| only UTRA level changed          | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for RXLEV                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.4 FDD/TDD cell re-selection  | 0.3 dB for                       |
|                                  | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB for Ioc1/Ioc2             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For multi-band UE with Band I    |
|                                  | and VI                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.5 dB for Ioc1/Ioc2             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.5 UTRA to E-UTRA Cell        |                                  |
| Re-Selection                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.5.1 E-UTRA is of higher      | [UTRA cell during                |
| priority                         | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ioc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80dB for Ior/Ioc              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.10dB for Noc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ês / N~oc~               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [UTRA cell during                |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ioc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80dB for Ior/Ioc              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.10dB for Noc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +1.90dB for Ês / N~oc~           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [UTRA cell during                |
|                                  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ioc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80dB for Ior/Ioc              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.10dB for Noc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.30dB for Ês / N~oc~           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.5.2 E-UTRA is of lower       | [UTRA cell during                |
| priority                         | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.10dB for Ioc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.90dB for Ior/Ioc              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80dB for Ês / N~oc~           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [UTRA cell during                |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.10dB for Ioc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.70dB for Ior/Ioc              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80dB for Ês / N~oc~           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.2.5.3 RSRQ based reselection   | [UTRA cell during T1, T2, T3,    |
| when E-UTRA FDD is of higher     | T4:]{.underline}                 |
| priority                         |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ioc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.8dB for Ior/Ioc               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ês / N~oc~               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.4dB for Ês / N~oc~            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.4dB for Ês / N~oc~            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | []{.underline}                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T4:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ês / N~oc~               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3 UTRAN Connected Mode         |                                  |
| Mobility                         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.1 FDD/FDD Soft Handover      | [During T0/T1 and                |
|                                  | T2/T3/T4/T5/T6:]{.underline}     |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Relative delay: {--147.5 ...     |
|                                  | +147.5} chips                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T0/T1:]{.underline}      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Already covered above            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During                          |
|                                  | T2/T3/T4/T5/T6:]{.underline}     |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.2 FDD/FDD Hard Handover      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.2.1 Handover to              | [During T1 and T2 /              |
| intra-frequency cell             | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T1:]{.underline}         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Already covered above            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T2 / T3:]{.underline}    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.2.2 Handover to              | [Channel 1 during T1 and T2 /    |
| inter-frequency cell             | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | []{.underline}                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during                |
|                                  | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Not applicable                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during T2 /           |
|                                  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.3 FDD/TDD Handover           | TBD                              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.4 Inter-system Handover form | [During T2 and T3:]{.underline}  |
| UTRAN FDD to GSM                 |                                  |
|                                  | \+ 1 dB for RXLEV                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.4a Inter-system Handover     | [UTRA cell during                |
| from UTRAN FDD to E-UTRAN FDD    | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ioc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ior/Ioc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ês / Noc                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [UTRA cell during                |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ioc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ior/Ioc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +1.1dB for Ês / Noc              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [UTRA cell during                |
|                                  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ioc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ior/Ioc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell during              |
|                                  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +1.1dB for Ês / Noc              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.4b Inter-system Handover     | [Same as 8.3.4a]{.underline}     |
| from UTRAN FDD to E-UTRAN TDD    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.4c Inter-system Handover     | Zero TT is applied,              |
| from UTRAN FDD to E-UTRAN FDD:   |                                  |
| Unknown Target Cell              |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.4d Inter-system Handover     | Same as 8.3.4c                   |
| from UTRAN FDD to E-UTRAN TDD;   |                                  |
| Unknown Target Cell              |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5 Cell Re-selection in       |                                  |
| CELL\_FACH                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.1 One frequency present in | [During T1 and T2:]{.underline}  |
| the neighbour list               |                                  |
|                                  | +0.60 dB for all Cell 1 and 2    |
|                                  | Ec/Ior ratios                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.50 dB for all Cell 3, 4 ,5, 6 |
|                                  | Ec/Ior ratios                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.03 dB for Ior(3, 4, 5, 6)     |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T1:]{.underline}         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.27 dB for Ior(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.13 dB for Ior(2)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T2:]{.underline}         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.13 dB for Ior(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.27 dB for Ior(2)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.1a One frequency present   | Same as 8.3.5.1                  |
| in neighbour list and HS-DSCH    |                                  |
| DRX configured                   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.2 Two frequencies present  | [Channel 1 during T1 and         |
| in the neighbour list            | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.60 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.70 dB for all Cell 3 and 4    |
|                                  | Ec/Ior ratios                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 1 during                |
|                                  | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.05 dB for Ior(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.05 dB for Ior(3, 4)           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | No change for Ioc(1)             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 1 during                |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.75 dB for Ior(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.05 dB for Ior(3, 4)           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.60 dB for Ioc(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during T1 and         |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.60 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.70 dB for all Cell 5 and 6    |
|                                  | Ec/Ior ratios                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during                |
|                                  | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.75 dB for Ior(2)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.05 dB for Ior(5, 6)           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.60 dB for Ioc(2)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during                |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.05 dB for Ior(2)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.05 dB for Ior(5, 6)           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | No change for Ioc(2)             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.2A Two frequencies present | Same as 8.2.2.2                  |
| in the neighbour list and        |                                  |
| HS-DSCH DRX configured (Absolute |                                  |
| priority levels not configured)  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.2B Two frequencies present | FFS                              |
| in the neighbour list and        |                                  |
| HS-DSCH DRX configured (Absolute |                                  |
| priority levels configured)      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.2C Two frequencies present | Same as 8.2.2.2                  |
| in the neighbour list and        |                                  |
| HS-DSCH 2^nd^ DRX configured     |                                  |
| (Absolute priority levels not    |                                  |
| configured)                      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.3 Cell Re-selection to GSM | 0.3 dB for                       |
|                                  | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | []{.underline}                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for RXLEV                 |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.4 Cell Reselection during  | [Channel 1 during T2 and         |
| an MBMS session, two frequencies | T3:]{.underline}                 |
| present in neighbour list        |                                  |
|                                  | +1.00 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 1 during                |
|                                  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.52 dB for Ioc(1)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during T1, T2 and     |
|                                  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +1.00 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during                |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.38 dB for Ioc(2)              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.1 Reselection to E-UTRA  | Same as 8.2.5.1 during T1 and T2 |
| FDD when HS-DSCH DRX is          |                                  |
| configured (E-UTRA has higher    |                                  |
| priority)                        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.2 Reselection to E-UTRA  | Same as 8.2.5.2 during T1 and T2 |
| FDD when HS-DSCH DRX is          |                                  |
| configured (E-UTRA has lower     |                                  |
| priority)                        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.3 Reselection to E-UTRA  | Same as 8.2.5.1 during T1 and T2 |
| FDD when HS-DSCH 2nd DRX is      |                                  |
| configured (E-UTRA has higher    |                                  |
| priority)                        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.4 Reselection to E-UTRA  | Same as 8.2.5.1 during T1 and T2 |
| TDD when HS-DSCH DRX is          |                                  |
| configured (E-UTRA has higher    |                                  |
| priority)                        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.5 Reselection to E-UTRA  | Same as 8.2.5.2 during T1 and T2 |
| TDD when HS-DSCH DRX is          |                                  |
| configured (E-UTRA has lower     |                                  |
| priority)                        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.5.5.6 Reselection to E-UTRA  | Same as 8.2.5.1 during T1 and T2 |
| TDD when HS-DSCH 2nd DRX is      |                                  |
| configured configured (E-UTRA    |                                  |
| has higher priority)             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.6 Cell Re-selection in       |                                  |
| CELL\_PCH                        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.6.1 One frequency present in | Same as 8.2.2.1                  |
| the neighbour list               |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.6.2 Two frequencies present  | Same as 8.2.2.2                  |
| in the neighbour list            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.6.3 Cell re-selection during | [Channel 1 during                |
| an MBMS session, one UTRAN       | T2:]{.underline}                 |
| inter-frequency and 2 GSM cells  |                                  |
| present in the neighbour list    | +1.00 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during T1 and         |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +1.00 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during                |
|                                  | T2:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.50 dB for Ioc(2)              |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during                |
|                                  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.3 dB for                      |
|                                  | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | GSM during T2:                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.0 dB for RXLEV1               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1.0 dB for RXLEV2               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | GSM during T3:                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +1.0 dB for RXLEV2               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.7 Cell Re-selection in       |                                  |
| URA\_PCH                         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.7.1 One frequency present in | Same as 8.2.2.1                  |
| the neighbour list               |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.7.2 Two frequencies present  | Same as 8.2.2.2                  |
| in the neighbour list            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.8 Serving HS-DSCH cell       | [During                          |
| change                           | T0/T1/T2/T3/T4:]{.underline}     |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Relative delay: {--147.5 ...     |
|                                  | +147.5} chips                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T0]{.underline}          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Already covered above            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T1/T2/T3/T4]{.underline} |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.9 Enhanced Serving HS-DSCH   | [During                          |
| cell change                      | /T1/T2/T3/T4:]{.underline}       |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \+ 0.5 chips for relative delay  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.10 System information        | []{.underline}                   |
| acquisition for CSG cell         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.10.1 Intrafrequency System   | [During T1 / T2:]{.underline}    |
| information acquisition for CSG  |                                  |
| cell                             | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T1:]{.underline}         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Already covered above            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T2:]{.underline}         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.3.10.2 Inter frequency System  | [Channel 1 during T1 and T2 /    |
| information acquisition for CSG  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
| cell                             |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | []{.underline}                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during                |
|                                  | T1:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Not applicable                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [Channel 2 during T2 /           |
|                                  | T3:]{.underline}                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.4 RRC Connection Control       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.4.1 RRC Re-establishment delay | Settings:                        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for                         |
|                                  | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0 dB for any\_Ec/Ior             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Zero TT is applied, as level     |
|                                  | settings are not critical with   |
|                                  | respect to the outcome of the    |
|                                  | test.                            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.4.2 Random Access              | Settings:                        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB for                       |
|                                  | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for AICH\_Ec/Ior          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Measurements:                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Power difference: ± 1dB          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Maximum Power: -1dB / +0.7dB     |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | PRACH timing error 0.5 chips     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.4.3 Transport format           | 0 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior            |
| combination selection in UE      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.4.4 E-TFC restriction in UE    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.4.4.1 10ms TTI E-DCH E-TFC     | 0.1 dB for Ec/Ior                |
| restriction                      |                                  |
|                                  | 0.7 dB for Îor                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.4.4.2 2ms TTI E-DCH E-TFC      | 0.1 dB for Ec/Ior                |
| restriction                      |                                  |
|                                  | 0.7 dB for Îor                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.5 Timing and Signalling        |                                  |
| Characteristics                  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.5.1 UE Transmit Timing         | 0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for DPCH\_Ec/Ior          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1 dB for Îor1                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.3 dB for Îor2                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.5 chips for Rx-Tx timing       |
|                                  | accuracy                         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.25 chips for Tx-Tx Timing      |
|                                  | Accuracy                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6 UE Measurements Procedures   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.1 FDD intra frequency        |                                  |
| measurements                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.1.1 Event triggered          | During T1/T4 and T2/T3:          |
| reporting in AWGN propagation    |                                  |
| conditions (R99)                 | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | During T1/T4 only:               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Already covered above            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | During T2/T3 only:               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.1.1A Event triggered         | During T1/T3 and T2:             |
| reporting in AWGN propagation    |                                  |
| conditions (Rel-4 and later)     | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | During T1/T3 only:               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Already covered above            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | During T2 only:                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.1.2 Event triggered          | During T0 to T6:                 |
| reporting of multiple neighbours |                                  |
| in AWGN propagation condition    | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
| (R99)                            | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 3 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.1.2A Event triggered         | During T0 to T4:                 |
| reporting of multiple neighbours |                                  |
| in AWGN propagation condition    | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
| (Rel-4 and later)                | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 3 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.1.3 Event triggered          | During T0 to T5:                 |
| reporting of two detectable      |                                  |
| neighbours in AWGN propagation   | +0.40 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
| condition (R99)                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.40 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.40 dB for all Cell 3 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.1.3A Event triggered         | During T0 to T4:                 |
| reporting of two detectable      |                                  |
| neighbours in AWGN propagation   | +0.40 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
| condition (Rel-4 and later)      | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.40 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.40 dB for all Cell 3 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.1.4A Correct reporting of    | During T1:                       |
| neighbours in fading propagation |                                  |
| condition (Rel-4 and later)      | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.30 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | During T2:                       |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.30 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.1.5 Event triggered          | During T1 and T2:                |
| reporting of multiple neighbour  |                                  |
| cells in Case 1 fading condition | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 3 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.1.6 Event triggered          | During T1 and T2:                |
| reporting of multiple neighbour  |                                  |
| cells in Case 3 fading condition | +0.70 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.70 dB for all Cell 3 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.2 FDD inter frequency        |                                  |
| measurements                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.2.1 Correct reporting of     | During T0 to T2:                 |
| neighbours in AWGN propagation   |                                  |
| condition (Release 5 and         | +0.80 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
| earlier)                         | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 3 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.2.1A Correct reporting of    | During T0 to T2:                 |
| neighbours in AWGN propagation   |                                  |
| condition (Release 6 and later)  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 3 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.2.2 Correct reporting of     | [During T1 and T2:]{.underline}  |
| neighbours in Fading propagation |                                  |
| condition (Release 5 only)       | +0.80 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.2.2A Correct reporting of    | [During T1 and T2:]{.underline}  |
| neighbours in Fading propagation |                                  |
| condition (Release 6 and later)  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.2.3 Correct reporting of     | [During T1 and T2:]{.underline}  |
| neighbours in Fading propagation |                                  |
| condition using TGL1=14          | +0.80 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.3 TDD measurements           |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.3.1Correct reporting of TDD  | TBD                              |
| neighbours in AWGN propagation   |                                  |
| condition                        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.4 GSM measurements           |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.4.1 Correct reporting of GSM | [During T2:]{.underline}         |
| neighbours in AWGN propagation   |                                  |
| condition                        | \+ 1 dB for RXLEV                |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T3:]{.underline}         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -1 dB for RXLEV                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.5 Combined Inter frequency   | []{.underline}                   |
| and GSM measurements             |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.5.1 Correct reporting of     | [ ]{.underline} During T0 to T5: |
| neighbours in AWGN propagation   |                                  |
| condition                        | +0.80 dB for all Cell 1 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80 dB for all Cell 2 Ec/Ior   |
|                                  | ratios                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T4 to T5:]{.underline}   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | \+ 1 dB for RXLEV                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.6.1 Correct reporting of     | [During T1:]{.underline}         |
| E-UTRAN FDD neighbour in fading  |                                  |
| propagation condition            | -0.8 dB for Cell 2 Noc           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T2:]{.underline}         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.8 dB for Cell 2 Noc           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0dB for Cell 2 Es/Noc          |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [During T3:]{.underline}         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.8 dB for Cell 2 Noc           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.6dB for Cell 2 Es/Noc          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.6.2 Correct reporting of     | [Same as 8.6.6.1]{.underline}    |
| E-UTRAN TDD neighbour in fading  |                                  |
| propagation condition            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.7.1 Correct reporting of     | [During T2:]{.underline}         |
| E-UTRA FDD neighbours in fading  |                                  |
| propagation condition            | [0.7dB for Cell 2]{.underline}   |
|                                  | Ior/Ioc                          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.6.7.2 Correct reporting of     | [Same as 8.6.7.1]{.underline}    |
| E-UTRA TDD neighbours in fading  |                                  |
| propagation condition            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7 Measurements Performance     |                                  |
| Requirements                     |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.1 CPICH RSCP                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.1.1 Intra frequency          | 0.3 dB for                       |
| measurements accuracy            | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for Ioc                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.1.2 Inter frequency          | 0.3 dB for                       |
| measurement accuracy             | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB for Ioc1/Ioc2             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for Ioc                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For multi-band UE with Band I    |
|                                  | and VI                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.5 dB for Ioc1/Ioc2             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.2 CPICH Ec/Io                |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.2.1 Intra frequency          | 0.3 dB for                       |
| measurements accuracy            | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.2.2 Inter frequency          | 0.3 dB for                       |
| measurement accuracy             | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB for Ioc1/Ioc2             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for Ioc                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For multi-band UE with Band I    |
|                                  | and VI                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.5 dB for Ioc1/Ioc2             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.3.1 UTRA Carrier RSSI,       | 0.3 dB for                       |
| absolute measurement accuracy    | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.3 dB for Ioc1/Ioc2             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for Ioc                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For multi-band UE with Band I    |
|                                  | and VI                           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.5 dB for Ioc1/Ioc2             |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.3.2 UTRA Carrier RSSI,       | 0.3 dB for                       |
| relative measurement accuracy    | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for Ioc                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.3A GSM Carrier RSSI          | TT for test parameters           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | GSM cell levels:                 |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Step 1: -1 dB                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Step 2: -1 dB                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Step 3: -1 dB                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Step 4:+1 dB                     |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Relative accuracy requirements:  |
|                                  | a, b, c and d values in minimum  |
|                                  | requirements are increased by 2  |
|                                  | dB i.e.,                         |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For x1 ≥ s+14, x2\< -48 dBm:     |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | a=4, b=4, c=6, d=6               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For s+14 \> x1 ≥ s+1             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | a=5, b=4, c=7, d=6               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | For s+1 \> x1                    |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | a=6, b=4, c=8, d=6               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Absolute accuracy requirements:  |
|                                  | original minimum requirements    |
|                                  | are increased by ±1 dB           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.3B Transport channel BLER    | TBD                              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.3C UE Transmitted power (R99 | 0.7 dB for mean power            |
| and Rel-4 only)                  | measurement by test system       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.3D UE Transmitted power      | 0.7 dB for mean power            |
| (Rel-5 and later)                | measurement by test system       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.4 SFN-CFN observed time      | 0.3 dB for                       |
| difference                       | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for Ioc                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | ±0.5 chips for the actual        |
|                                  | SFN-CFN observed time difference |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.5.1 SFN-SFN observed time    | 0.3 dB for                       |
| difference type 1                | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for Ioc                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | ±0.5 chips for the actual        |
|                                  | SFN-SFN observed time difference |
|                                  | type 1                           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.6.1 UE Rx-Tx time difference | 0.3 dB for                       |
| (Release 5 and earlier)          | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for Ioc                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.5 chip for Rx-Tx Timing        |
|                                  | Accuracy                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.6.1A UE Rx-Tx time           | 0.3 dB for                       |
| difference (Release 6 and later) | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 1.0 dB for Ioc                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.5 chip for Rx-Tx Timing        |
|                                  | Accuracy                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.7 Observed time difference   | TBD                              |
| to GSM cell                      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.8 P-CCPCH RSCP               | TBD                              |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.9 UE Transmission Power      | 0.8 dB for UPH reporting         |
| Headroom                         | accuracy                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.10 E-UTRAN FDD RSRP absolute | [UTRA cell in Test               |
| accuracy                         | 1:]{.underline}                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [0dB for Ioc]{.underline}        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ior/Ioc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell in Test             |
|                                  | 1:]{.underline}                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.30dB for Noc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ês/Noc                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [UTRA cell in Test               |
|                                  | 2:]{.underline}                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [0dB for Ioc]{.underline}        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ior/Ioc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | [E-UTRA cell in Test             |
|                                  | 2:]{.underline}                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80dB for Ês/Noc               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.11 E-UTRAN TDD RSRP absolute | [Same as 8.7.10]{.underline}     |
| accuracy                         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.12 E-UTRAN FDD RSRQ absolute | UTRA cell in Test 1:             |
| accuracy                         |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ioc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ior/Ioc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | E-UTRA cell in Test 1:           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | -0.80dB for Noc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ês/Noc                   |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | UTRA cell in Test 2:             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ioc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ior/Ioc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | E-UTRA cell in Test 2:           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80dB for Ês/Noc               |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | UTRA cell in Test 3:             |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ioc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Ior/Ioc                  |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for CPICH\_Ec/Ior            |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | E-UTRA cell in Test 3:           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0dB for Noc                      |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | +0.80dB for Ês/Noc               |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 8.7.13 E-UTRAN TDD RSRQ absolute | Same as 8.7.12                   |
| accuracy                         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

F.2.5 Performance requirements (HSDPA)
--------------------------------------

Table F.2.5: Test Tolerances for Performance Requirements (HSDPA)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Clause                           | Test Tolerance                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.2.1A to 9.2.1KD Single Link    | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Performance                      | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for Ec/Ior                |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test Tolerances apply for each   |
|                                  | carrier                          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.2.1L to 9.2.1LD Single Link    | 0.76 dB for                      |
| Enhanced Performance Type 3i     | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.17 dB for DIP1, DIP2           |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for Ec/Ior                |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | Test Tolerances apply for each   |
|                                  | carrier                          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.2.1M                           | 0.73 dB for                      |
|                                  | ${\hat{                          |
|                                  | I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                                  | for cell1 for subtest 1,2        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.78 dB for                      |
|                                  | ${\hat{                          |
|                                  | I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                                  | for cell2 for subtest 1,2        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.68 dB for                      |
|                                  | ${\hat{                          |
|                                  | I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                                  | for cell1 for subtest 3,4        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.73 dB for                      |
|                                  | ${\hat{                          |
|                                  | I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                                  | for cell2 for subtest 3,4        |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB in Ec/Ior ratio           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.2.2A to 9.2.2E Open loop       | 0.8 dB for                       |
| diversity performance            | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for Ec/Ior                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.2.3A to 9.2.3E Closed loop     | Same as 9.2.2A                   |
| diversity performance            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.2.4A to 9.2.4H MIMO            | Same as 9.2.2A                   |
| performance                      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.1 Single Link Performance -  | No test tolerances applied       |
| AWGN propagation conditions      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.1A Single Link Performance - | No test tolerances applied       |
| AWGN propagation conditions,     |                                  |
| 64QAM                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.1B Single Link Performance - | No test tolerances applied       |
| AWGN Propagation Conditions,     |                                  |
| DC-HSDPA requirements            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.1BA Single Link Performance  | No test tolerances applied       |
| - AWGN Propagation Conditions,   |                                  |
| DB-DC-HSDPA requirements         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.1C Single Link Performance - | No test tolerances applied for   |
| AWGN Propagation Conditions,     | test step 7 and 8                |
| Periodically Varying Radio       |                                  |
| Conditions                       | TT for M-difference is 1 for     |
|                                  | test step 9 (difference in       |
|                                  | medians M~1~ and M~2)~           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.2 Single Link Performance -  | No test tolerances applied       |
| Fading propagation conditions    |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.2A Single Link Performance - | No test tolerances applied       |
| Fading Propagation Conditions,   |                                  |
| DC-HSDPA requirements            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.2AA Single Link Performance  | No test tolerances applied       |
| - Fading Propagation Conditions, |                                  |
| DB-DC-HSDPA requirements         |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.2B Single Link Performance - | No test tolerances applied       |
| Fading propagation conditions,   |                                  |
| 64QAM                            |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.3 Open Loop Diversity        | No test tolerances applied       |
| Performance - AWGN propagation   |                                  |
| conditions                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.4 Open Loop Diversity        | No test tolerances applied       |
| Performance - Fading propagation |                                  |
| conditions                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.5 Closed Loop Diversity      | No test tolerances applied       |
| Performance - AWGN propagation   |                                  |
| conditions                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.6 Closed Loop Diversity      | No test tolerances applied       |
| Performance - Fading propagation |                                  |
| conditions                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.7A, MIMO performance --      | No test tolerances applied       |
| Reporting of Channel Quality     |                                  |
| indicator - Single stream fading |                                  |
| conditions                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.7B MIMO performance --       | No test tolerances applied       |
| Reporting of Channel Quality     |                                  |
| indicator - Dual stream fading   |                                  |
| conditions                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.7C MIMO performance --       | No test tolerances applied       |
| Reporting of Channel Quality     |                                  |
| indicator - Dual stream fading   |                                  |
| conditions-- UE categories 19-20 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.7D MIMO performance --       | No test tolerances applied       |
| Reporting of Channel Quality     |                                  |
| indicator - Dual stream static   |                                  |
| orthogonal conditions -- UE      |                                  |
| categories 15-20                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.7E MIMO performance          | No test tolerances applied       |
| --Reporting of Channel Quality   |                                  |
| indicator - Dual stream static   |                                  |
| orthogonal conditions -- UE      |                                  |
| categories 19-20                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.7A MIMO performance --       | No test tolerances applied       |
| Reporting of Channel Quality     |                                  |
| indicator - Single stream fading |                                  |
| conditions - Asymmetric CPICHs   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.7B MIMO performance --       | No test tolerances applied       |
| Reporting of Channel Quality     |                                  |
| indicator - Dual stream fading   |                                  |
| conditions --Asymmetric CPICHs   |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.7C MIMO performance --       | No test tolerances applied       |
| Reporting of Channel Quality     |                                  |
| indicator - Dual stream fading   |                                  |
| conditions-- UE categories 19-20 |                                  |
| --Asymmetric CPICHs              |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.7D MIMO performance --       | No test tolerances applied       |
| Reporting of Channel Quality     |                                  |
| indicator - Dual stream static   |                                  |
| orthogonal conditions -- UE      |                                  |
| categories 15-20 - Asymmetric    |                                  |
| CPICHs                           |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.3.7E MIMO performance          | No test tolerances applied       |
| --Reporting of Channel Quality   |                                  |
| indicator - Dual stream static   |                                  |
| orthogonal conditions -- UE      |                                  |
| categories 19-20 - Asymmetric    |                                  |
| CPICHs                           |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.1 Single Link Performance    | 0.6 dB for                       |
|                                  | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior and   |
|                                  | HS-SCCH\_Ec/Ior                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.1A Single Link Performance - | Same as 9.4.1                    |
| Enhanced Performance             |                                  |
| Requirements Type 1              |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.2 Open loop diversity        | 0.8 dB for                       |
| performance                      | ${\ha                            |
|                                  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for P-CPICH\_Ec/Ior and   |
|                                  | HS-SCCH\_Ec/Ior                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.2A Open loop diversity       | Same as 9.4.2                    |
| performance -- Enhanced          |                                  |
| Performance Requirements Type 1  |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.3 HS-SCCH Type 3 performance | Same as 9.4.2                    |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.3A HS-SCCH Type 3            | Same as 9.4.2                    |
| Performance -STTD disabled-      |                                  |
| Asymmetric CPICHs                |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.3B HS-SCCH Type 3            | Same as 9.4.2                    |
| Performance -STTD enabled-       |                                  |
| Asymmetric CPICHs                |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.4 HS-SCCH Type 3 performance | Same as 9.4.2                    |
| for MIMO only with single-stream |                                  |
| restriction                      |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.4A HS-SCCH Type 3            | Same as 9.4.2                    |
| performance for MIMO only with   |                                  |
| single-stream                    |                                  |
| restriction-Enhanced Performance |                                  |
| Requirements Type1               |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.4B HS-SCCH Type 3            | Same as 9.4.2                    |
| Performance for MIMO only with   |                                  |
| single-stream restriction-STTD   |                                  |
| disabled-asymmetric CPICHs       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.4C HS-SCCH Type 3            | Same as 9.4.2                    |
| Performance for MIMO only with   |                                  |
| single-stream restriction-STTD   |                                  |
| disabled-asymmetric              |                                  |
| CPICHs-Enhanced Performance      |                                  |
| Requirements Type 1              |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.4D HS-SCCH Type 3            | Same as 9.4.2                    |
| Performance for MIMO only with   |                                  |
| single-stream restriction-STTD   |                                  |
| enabled-asymmetric CPICHs        |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.4.4E HS-SCCH Type 3            | Same as 9.4.2                    |
| Performance for MIMO only with   |                                  |
| single-stream restriction-STTD   |                                  |
| enabled-asymmetric               |                                  |
| CPICHs-Enhanced Performance      |                                  |
| Requirements Type 1              |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.5.1 HS-SCCH-less demodulation  | Same as 9.2.1A                   |
| of HS-DSCH                       |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.5.1A HS-SCCH-less demodulation | Same as 9.2.1A                   |
| of HS-DSCH, Enhanced Performance |                                  |
| Requirements Type 1              |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.6.1 Single link HS-DSCH        | Same as 9.2.1A                   |
| Demodulation performance in      |                                  |
| CELL\_FACH state                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 9.6.2 Single link HS-SCCH        | Same as 9.2.1A                   |
| Detection performance in         |                                  |
| CELL\_FACH state                 |                                  |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

F.2.6 Performance requirements (E-DCH)
--------------------------------------

Table F.2.6: Test Tolerances for Performance Requirements (E-DCH)

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Clause                           | Test Tolerance                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.1.1 Detection of E-DCH HARQ | 0.6 dB for                       |
| ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH)   | ${\ha                            |
| Single Link Performance (10 ms)  | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.1.1A Detection of E-DCH     | 0.6 dB for                       |
| HARQ ACK Indicator Channel       | ${\ha                            |
| (E-HICH) Single Link Performance | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| (10 ms, Type 1)                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.1.2 Detection of E-DCH HARQ | 0.6 dB for                       |
| ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH)   | ${\ha                            |
| Single Link Performance (2 ms    | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| TTI)                             |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.1.2A Detection of E-DCH     | 0.6 dB for                       |
| HARQ ACK Indicator Channel       | ${\ha                            |
| (E-HICH) Single Link Performance | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| (2 ms TTI, Type 1)               |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.2.1.1 Detection of E-DCH    | 0.6 dB for                       |
| HARQ ACK Indicator Channel       | ${\hat                           |
| (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover  | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions -- RLS not containing | and                              |
| the serving E-DCH cell (10 ms    | ${\hat                           |
| TTI)                             | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.2.1.1A Detection of E-DCH   | 0.6 dB for                       |
| HARQ ACK Indicator Channel       | ${\hat                           |
| (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover  | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions -- RLS not containing | and                              |
| the serving E-DCH cell (10 ms    | ${\hat                           |
| TTI, Type 1)                     | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.2.1.2 Detection of E-DCH    | 0.6 dB for                       |
| HARQ ACK Indicator Channel       | ${\hat                           |
| (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover  | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions -- RLS not containing | and                              |
| the serving E-DCH cell (2 ms     | ${\hat                           |
| TTI)                             | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.2.1.2A Detection of E-DCH   | 0.6 dB for                       |
| HARQ ACK Indicator Channel       | ${\hat                           |
| (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover  | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions -- RLS not containing | and                              |
| the serving E-DCH cell (2 ms     | ${\hat                           |
| TTI, Type 1)                     | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.2.2.1 Detection of E-DCH    | 0.6 dB for                       |
| HARQ ACK Indicator Channel       | ${\hat                           |
| (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover  | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions -- RLS containing the | and                              |
| serving E-DCH cell (10 ms TTI)   | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.2.2.1A Detection of E-DCH   | 0.6 dB for                       |
| HARQ ACK Indicator Channel       | ${\hat                           |
| (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover  | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions -- RLS containing the | and                              |
| serving E-DCH cell (10 ms TTI,   | ${\hat                           |
| Type 1)                          | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.2.2.2 Detection of E-DCH    | 0.6 dB for                       |
| HARQ ACK Indicator Channel       | ${\hat                           |
| (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover  | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions -- RLS containing the | and                              |
| serving E-DCH cell (2 ms TTI)    | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.2.2.2.2A Detection of E-DCH   | 0.6 dB for                       |
| HARQ ACK Indicator Channel       | ${\hat                           |
| (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover  | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions -- RLS containing the | and                              |
| serving E-DCH cell (2 ms TTI,    | ${\hat                           |
| Type 1)                          | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-HICH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.3.1.1 Detection of E-DCH      | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)  | ${\ha                            |
| Single Link Performance (10 ms   | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| TTI)                             |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.3.1.1A Detection of E-DCH     | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)  | ${\ha                            |
| Single Link Performance (10 ms   | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| TTI, Type 1)                     |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.3.1.2 Detection of E-DCH      | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)  | ${\ha                            |
| Single Link Performance (2 ms    | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| TTI)                             |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.3.1.2A Detection of E-DCH     | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)  | ${\ha                            |
| Single Link Performance (2 ms    | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| TTI, Type 1)                     |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.3.2 Detection of E-DCH        | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)  | ${\hat                           |
| in Inter-Cell Handover           | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions                       | and                              |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.3.2A Detection of E-DCH       | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH)  | ${\hat                           |
| in Inter-Cell Handover           | {I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions (Type 1)              | and                              |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.4.1 Demodulation of E-DCH     | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Absolute Grant Channel (E-AGCH)  | ${\ha                            |
| Single Link Performance          | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 10.4.1A Demodulation of E-DCH    | 0.6 dB for                       |
| Absolute Grant Channel (E-AGCH)  | ${\ha                            |
| Single Link Performance (Type 1) | t{I}}_{\text{or}}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.1 dB for E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior        |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

F.2.7 Performance requirements (MBMS)
-------------------------------------

Table F.2.7: Test Tolerances for Performance Requirements (MBMS).

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Clause                           | Test Tolerance                   |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 11.2 Demodulation of MTCH        | 0.1 dB for S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior       |
|                                  |                                  |
|                                  | 0.6 dB                           |
|                                  | for${\hat{                       |
|                                  | I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$, |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  | and${\hat{                       |
|                                  | I}}_{\text{or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$. |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 11.2A Demodulation of MTCH -     | 0.1 dB for S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior       |
| Enhanced Performance             |                                  |
| Requirements Type 1              | 0.6 dB                           |
|                                  | for${\hat{                       |
|                                  | I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$, |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  | and${\hat{                       |
|                                  | I}}_{\text{or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$. |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| 11.3 Demodulation of MTCH and    | 0.1 dB for S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior       |
| cell identification              |                                  |
|                                  | 0.6 dB for                       |
|                                  | ${\hat{                          |
|                                  | I}}_{\text{or}1}/I_{\text{oc}}$, |
|                                  | ${\hat                           |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}2}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                                  | and${\hat                        |
|                                  | {I}}_{\text{or}3}/I_{\text{oc}}$ |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

F.3 Interpretation of measurement results
=========================================

The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared --
without any modification -- against the Test Requirements as defined by
the shared risk principle.

The Shared Risk principle is defined in ETR 273-1-2 clause 6.5.

The actual measurement uncertainty of the Test System for the
measurement of each parameter shall be included in the test report.

The recorded value for the Test System uncertainty shall be, for each
measurement, equal to or lower than the appropriate figure in clause F.1
of the present document.

If the Test System for a test is known to have a measurement uncertainty
greater than that specified in clause F.1, it is still permitted to use
this apparatus provided that an adjustment is made value as follows.

Any additional uncertainty in the Test System over and above that
specified in clause F.1 shall be used to tighten the Test Requirement --
making the test harder to pass. (For some tests e.g. receiver tests,
this may require modification of stimulus signals). This procedure will
ensure that a Test System not compliant with clause F.1does not increase
the chance of passing a device under test where that device would
otherwise have failed the test if a Test System compliant with clause
F.1 had been used.

For some of the more complex tests e.g. RRM, deriving the overall test
system uncertainty is not straightforward. In such cases the derivation
is given in TR 34.902 \[24\] rather than in subclause F.1. If it is
deemed necessary to apply the additional test system uncertainty rules
to these tests, the formula for deriving the new overall uncertainty
from any excess fundamental test system uncertainties, shall use the
formulas provided in 34.902.

F.4 Derivation of Test Requirements (This clause is informative)
================================================================

The Test Requirements in the present document have been calculated by
relaxing the Minimum Requirements of the core specification using the
Test Tolerances defined in clause F.2. When the Test Tolerance is zero,
the Test Requirement will be the same as the Minimum Requirement. When
the Test Tolerance is non-zero, the Test Requirements will differ from
the Minimum Requirements, and the formula used for this relaxation is
given in table F.4.

F.4.1 Transmitter
-----------------

Table F.4.1: Derivation of Test Requirements (Transmitter tests)

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Test     | Minimum  | Test     | Test     |          |          |
|          | Req      | To       | Req      |          |          |
|          | uirement | lerance\ | uirement |          |          |
|          | in TS    | (TT)     | in TS    |          |          |
|          | 25.101   |          | 34.121   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2      | Power    | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | class 1  |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | (33      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | dBm)\    |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | T        |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | + TT\    |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | class 2  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | (27      |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | For      |          |          |
|          | T        |          | power    |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | 1-3:     |          |          |
|          | dB       |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | T        |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | (24      |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | +1.7 dB\ |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | T        |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | For      |          |          |
|          | (21      |          | power    |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | class 4: |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit=   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2A     | For      | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Power    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | class 3: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| with     | Power    |          | uirement |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | class 3  |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| (Release | (24      |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
| 5 only)  | dBm)\    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | dB       |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For      |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | power    |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | (23      |          | 3:       |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | T        |          |          |
|          | = +2/-3  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +1.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          |          |          |          |
|          | (22      |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | T        |          |          |
|          | T        |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | = +3/-3  |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | (23 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | For      |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | T        |          |          |
|          | class 4: |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | +1.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | (22      |          |          |
|          | (21      |          | dBm)\    |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          | T        |          | T        |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | For      |          |          |
|          | (20      |          | power    |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | class 4: |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          | = +3/-2  |          | T        |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | (24      |          |          |
|          | (19      |          | dBm)\    |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          | T        |          | T        |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | = +4/-2  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (23 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22      |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm)\    |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2AA    | For      | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Power    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | class 3: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| with     | Sub-test |          | uirement |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 1: Power |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| (Release | class 3  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
| 6 and    | (24      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| later)   | dBm)\    |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | T        |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          |          |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | 2: Power |          | 3:       |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          |          |          |          |
|          | (24      |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          | T        |          | T        |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | +1.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | 3: Power |          |          |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | (23.5    |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | T        |          |          |
|          | T        |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | =        |          |          |          |          |
|          | +1.5/-3  |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | 2: Upper |          |          |
|          | 4: Power |          | T        |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | (23.5    |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | +1.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | T        |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | olerance |          |          |          |          |
|          | =        |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | +1.5/-3  |          | 2: Lower |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | For      |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | class 4: |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | 1: Power |          | 3: Upper |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | T        |          |          |
|          | (21 dBm) |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | T        |          | +2.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | (23.5    |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | dBm)     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | 2: Power |          | 3: Lower |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | T        |          |          |
|          | (21      |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | 4: Upper |          |          |
|          | 3: Power |          | T        |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | (20.5    |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | +2.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | T        |          | (23.5    |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | dBm)     |          |          |
|          | =        |          |          |          |          |
|          | +2.5/-2  |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | 4: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | 4: Power |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          |          |          |          |
|          | (20.5    |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          | For      |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | power    |          |          |
|          | =        |          | class 4: |          |          |
|          | +2.5/-2  |          |          |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.2 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (20.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm)     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.2 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (20.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm)     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2AB    | Power    | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | class 3  |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | (24      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | dBm)\    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for UL   | T        |          | uirement |          |          |
| OLTD     | olerance |          | + TT\    |          |          |
|          | = +1/-4  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | class    |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | 3bis (23 |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | For      |          |          |
|          | T        |          | power    |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | = +2/-3  |          | 3:       |          |          |
|          | dB       |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +1.7 dB\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | class    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3bis:    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit=   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2AC    | Power    | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | class 3  |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | (24      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | dBm)\    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for UL   | T        |          | uirement |          |          |
| CLTD     | olerance |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| ac       | = +1/-4  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
| tivation | dB       |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| state 1  |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | class    |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | 3bis (23 |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | For      |          |          |
|          | T        |          | power    |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | = +2/-3  |          | 3:       |          |          |
|          | dB       |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +1.7 dB\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | class    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3bis:    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit=   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2AD    | Power    | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | class 1  |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | (33      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | dBm)\    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for UL   | T        |          | uirement |          |          |
| CLTD     | olerance |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| ac       | = +1/-3  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
| tivation | dB       |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| state 2  |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| and 3    | Power    |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | class 2  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | (27      |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | For      |          |          |
|          | T        |          | power    |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | 1-3:     |          |          |
|          | dB       |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | T        |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | (24      |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | +1.7 dB\ |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | T        |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | For      |          |          |
|          | (21      |          | power    |          |          |
|          | dBm)\    |          | class 4: |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit=   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2B     | For      | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Power    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | class 3: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| with     | Sub-test |          | uirement |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 1: Power |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| and      | class 3  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
| E-DCH    | (24 dBm) |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | T        |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3\ |          |          |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | For      |          |          |
|          | 2: Power |          | power    |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | (22 dBm) |          | 3:       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          | = +3/-3  |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | 3: Power |          | +1.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | (23 dBm) |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | T        |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | T        |          |          |
|          | = +2/-3  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | 4: Power |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          |          |          |          |
|          | (22 dBm) |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Upper |          |          |
|          | T        |          | T        |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | 5: Power |          |          |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | (24 dBm) |          | 2: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          | T        |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | For      |          |          |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | class 4: |          | 3: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | 1: Power |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | (21 dBm) |          | (23 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | 3: Lower |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | 2: Power |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | (23 dBm) |          |          |
|          | (19 dBm) |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | T        |          | 4: Upper |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | T        |          |          |
|          | = +4/-2  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | 3: Power |          |          |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | (20 dBm) |          | 4: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          | T        |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | = +3/-2  |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | 4: Power |          | 5: Upper |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | T        |          |          |
|          | (19 dBm) |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | T        |          | +1.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | = +4/-2  |          |          |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5: Lower |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | T        |          |          |
|          | 5: Power |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | (21 dBm) |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | For      |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | class 4: |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (20 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (20 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2BA UE | For      | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Power    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | class 3: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| for      | Sub-test |          | uirement |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | 1: Power |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| (QPSK)   | class 3  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          | (22.5    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | dBm)     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | T        |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | olerance |          |          |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          | For      |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | 3:       |          |          |
|          | class 4: |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          | 1: Power |          | T        |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | (19.5    |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dBm)     |          | +3.2 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22.5    |          |          |
|          | T        |          | dBm)     |          |          |
|          | olerance |          |          |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm)     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | class 4: |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.2 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm)     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm)     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2BB UE | For      | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Power    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | class 3: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| for      | Sub-test |          | uirement |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | 1: Power |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| (16QAM)  | class 3  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          | (22.5    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | dBm)     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | T        |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | olerance |          |          |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          | For      |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | Power    |          | 3:       |          |          |
|          | class 4: |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          | 1: Power |          | T        |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | (19.5    |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dBm)     |          | +3.2 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22.5    |          |          |
|          | T        |          | dBm)     |          |          |
|          | olerance |          |          |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm)     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | class 4: |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.2 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm)     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm)     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2BC    | For      | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Power    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | class 3: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| with     | Sub-test |          | uirement |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 1: Power |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| and      | class 3  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
| E-DCH    | (24 dBm) |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| OLTD     | T        |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3\ |          |          |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | For      |          |          |
|          | 2: Power |          | power    |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | (22 dBm) |          | 3:       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          | = +3/-3  |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | 3: Power |          | +1.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | (23 dBm) |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | T        |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | T        |          |          |
|          | = +2/-3  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | 4: Power |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          |          |          |          |
|          | (22 dBm) |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Upper |          |          |
|          | T        |          | T        |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | For      |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | class 4: |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Lower |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | T        |          |          |
|          | 1: Power |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | (21 dBm) |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | 3: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | 2: Power |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | (19 dBm) |          | (23 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | 3: Lower |          |          |
|          | = +4/-2  |          | T        |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | 3: Power |          | (23 dBm) |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          |          |          |          |
|          | (20 dBm) |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Upper |          |          |
|          | T        |          | T        |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | = +3/-2  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          |          |          |          |
|          | 4: Power |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | 4: Lower |          |          |
|          | (19 dBm) |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | T        |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | = +4/-2  |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | dB       |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | class 4: |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (20 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (20 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2BD    | For      | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Power    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | class 3: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| with     | Sub-test |          | uirement |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 1: Power |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| and      | class 3  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
| E-DCH    | (24 dBm) |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| CLTD     | T        |          | uirement |          |          |
| ac       | olerance |          | -- TT    |          |          |
| tivation | = +1/-3\ |          |          |          |          |
| state 1  | Sub-test |          | For      |          |          |
|          | 2: Power |          | power    |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | (22 dBm) |          | 3:       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          | = +3/-3  |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | 3: Power |          | +1.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | (23 dBm) |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | T        |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | T        |          |          |
|          | = +2/-3  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | 4: Power |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          |          |          |          |
|          | (22 dBm) |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Upper |          |          |
|          | T        |          | T        |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | For      |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | class 4: |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Lower |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | T        |          |          |
|          | 1: Power |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | (21 dBm) |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | 3: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | 2: Power |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | (19 dBm) |          | (23 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | 3: Lower |          |          |
|          | = +4/-2  |          | T        |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | 3: Power |          | (23 dBm) |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          |          |          |          |
|          | (20 dBm) |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Upper |          |          |
|          | T        |          | T        |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | = +3/-2  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          |          |          |          |
|          | 4: Power |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | 4: Lower |          |          |
|          | (19 dBm) |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | T        |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | = +4/-2  |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | dB       |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | class 4: |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (20 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (20 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.BE     | For      | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Power    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Output   | class 3: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| with     | Sub-test |          | uirement |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 1: Power |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| and      | class 3  |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
| E-DCH    | (24 dBm) |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| CLTD     | T        |          | uirement |          |          |
| ac       | olerance |          | -- TT    |          |          |
| tivation | = +1/-3\ |          |          |          |          |
| state 2  | Sub-test |          | For      |          |          |
| and 3    | 2: Power |          | power    |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | classes  |          |          |
|          | (22 dBm) |          | 3:       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          | = +3/-3  |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | 3: Power |          | +1.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | (23 dBm) |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | T        |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | T        |          |          |
|          | = +2/-3  |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | 4: Power |          | (24 dBm) |          |          |
|          | class 3  |          |          |          |          |
|          | (22 dBm) |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Upper |          |          |
|          | T        |          | T        |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | = +1/-3  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | For      |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | Power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | class 4: |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Lower |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | T        |          |          |
|          | 1: Power |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | (21 dBm) |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | T        |          |          |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | = ±2 dB  |          | 3: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | 2: Power |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | (19 dBm) |          | (23 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | T        |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | 3: Lower |          |          |
|          | = +4/-2  |          | T        |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | 3: Power |          | (23 dBm) |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          |          |          |          |
|          | (20 dBm) |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Upper |          |          |
|          | T        |          | T        |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | = +3/-2  |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | Sub-test |          |          |          |          |
|          | 4: Power |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          | class 4  |          | 4: Lower |          |          |
|          | (19 dBm) |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | T        |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | -3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          | = +4/-2  |          | (22 dBm) |          |          |
|          | dB       |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | class 4: |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 1: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (21 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +3.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (20 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (20 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Upper |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Sub-test |          |          |
|          |          |          | 4: Lower |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -2.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          | (19 dBm) |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2C UE  | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| relative | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| code     | CDP ±    | CDP 0.2  | relative |          |          |
| domain   | 1.5 dB   | dB       | CDP      |          |          |
| power    |          |          | accuracy |          |          |
| accuracy | For -10  | For -10  | + TT     |          |          |
|          | dB ≥ -15 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |          |
|          | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For 0 dB |          |          |
|          | 2.0 dB   | 0.3 dB   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          | CDP ±    |          |          |
|          | For -15  | For -15  | 1.7 dB   |          |          |
|          | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |
|          | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For -10  |          |          |
|          | 2.5 dB   | 0.4 dB   | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.3 dB   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.9 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2CA    | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| **UE     | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| relative | CDP ±    | CDP 0.2  | relative |          |          |
| code     | 1.5 dB   | dB       | CDP      |          |          |
| domain   |          |          | accuracy |          |          |
| power    | For -10  | For -10  | + TT     |          |          |
| accuracy | dB ≥ -15 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |          |
| for UL   | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For 0 dB |          |          |
| OLTD**   | 2.0 dB   | 0.3 dB   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          | CDP ±    |          |          |
|          | For -15  | For -15  | 1.7 dB   |          |          |
|          | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |
|          | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For -10  |          |          |
|          | 2.5 dB   | 0.4 dB   | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.3 dB   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.9 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2CB    | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| **UE     | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| relative | CDP ±    | CDP 0.2  | relative |          |          |
| code     | 1.5 dB   | dB       | CDP      |          |          |
| domain   |          |          | accuracy |          |          |
| power    | For -10  | For -10  | + TT     |          |          |
| accuracy | dB ≥ -15 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |          |
| for UL   | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For 0 dB |          |          |
| CLTD     | 2.0 dB   | 0.3 dB   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| ac       |          |          | CDP ±    |          |          |
| tivation | For -15  | For -15  | 1.7 dB   |          |          |
| state    | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |
| 1**      | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For -10  |          |          |
|          | 2.5 dB   | 0.4 dB   | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.3 dB   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.9 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2CC    | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| **UE     | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| relative | CDP ±    | CDP 0.2  | relative |          |          |
| code     | 1.5 dB   | dB       | CDP      |          |          |
| domain   |          |          | accuracy |          |          |
| power    | For -10  | For -10  | + TT     |          |          |
| accuracy | dB ≥ -15 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |          |
| for UL   | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For 0 dB |          |          |
| CLTD     | 2.0 dB   | 0.3 dB   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| ac       |          |          | CDP ±    |          |          |
| tivation | For -15  | For -15  | 1.7 dB   |          |          |
| state 2  | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |
| and 3**  | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For -10  |          |          |
|          | 2.5 dB   | 0.4 dB   | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.3 dB   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.9 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2D UE  | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| Relative | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| Code     | CDP ±1.5 | CDP 0.2  | relative |          |          |
| Domain   | dB       | dB       | CDP      |          |          |
| Power    |          |          | accuracy |          |          |
| Accuracy | For -10  | For -10  | + TT     |          |          |
| with     | dB ≥ -15 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For 0 dB |          |          |
| and      | 2.0 dB   | 0.3 dB   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| E-DCH    |          |          | CDP ±    |          |          |
|          | For -15  | For -15  | 1.7 dB   |          |          |
|          | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |
|          | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For -10  |          |          |
|          | 2.5 dB   | 0.4 dB   | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.3 dB   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.9 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2DA UE | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| Relative | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| Code     | CDP ±1.5 | CDP 0.2  | relative |          |          |
| Domain   | dB       | dB       | CDP      |          |          |
| Power    |          |          | accuracy |          |          |
| Accuracy | For -10  | For -10  | + TT     |          |          |
| for      | dB ≥ -15 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For 0 dB |          |          |
| with     | 2.0 dB   | 0.3 dB   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| QPSK     |          |          | CDP ±    |          |          |
|          | For -15  | For -15  | 1.7 dB   |          |          |
|          | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |
|          | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For -10  |          |          |
|          | 2.5 dB   | 0.4 dB   | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.3 dB   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.9 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2DB    | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| **UE     | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| Relative | CDP ±1.5 | CDP 0.2  | relative |          |          |
| Code     | dB       | dB       | CDP      |          |          |
| Domain   |          |          | accuracy |          |          |
| Power    | For -10  | For -10  | + TT     |          |          |
| Accuracy | dB ≥ -15 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |          |
| for      | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For 0 dB |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 2.0 dB   | 0.3 dB   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| and      |          |          | CDP ±    |          |          |
| E-DCH    | For -15  | For -15  | 1.7 dB   |          |          |
| for UL   | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |
| OLTD**   | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For -10  |          |          |
|          | 2.5 dB   | 0.4 dB   | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.3 dB   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.9 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2DC    | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| **UE     | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| Relative | CDP ±1.5 | CDP 0.2  | relative |          |          |
| Code     | dB       | dB       | CDP      |          |          |
| Domain   |          |          | accuracy |          |          |
| Power    | For -10  | For -10  | + TT     |          |          |
| Accuracy | dB ≥ -15 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |          |
| for      | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For 0 dB |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 2.0 dB   | 0.3 dB   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| and      |          |          | CDP ±    |          |          |
| E-DCH    | For -15  | For -15  | 1.7 dB   |          |          |
| for UL   | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |
| CLTD     | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For -10  |          |          |
| ac       | 2.5 dB   | 0.4 dB   | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
| tivation |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
| state    |          |          | 2.3 dB   |          |          |
| 1**      |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.9 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2DD    | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| **UE     | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| Relative | CDP ±1.5 | CDP 0.2  | relative |          |          |
| Code     | dB       | dB       | CDP      |          |          |
| Domain   |          |          | accuracy |          |          |
| Power    | For -10  | For -10  | + TT     |          |          |
| Accuracy | dB ≥ -15 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |          |
| for      | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For 0 dB |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 2.0 dB   | 0.3 dB   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| and      |          |          | CDP ±    |          |          |
| E-DCH    | For -15  | For -15  | 1.7 dB   |          |          |
| for UL   | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |
| CLTD     | dB CDP ± | dB CDP   | For -10  |          |          |
| ac       | 2.5 dB   | 0.4 dB   | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
| tivation |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
| state 2  |          |          | 2.3 dB   |          |          |
| and 3**  |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP ± |          |          |
|          |          |          | 2.9 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2E UE  | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| Relative | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| Code     | CDP ±1.5 | CDP      | relative |          |          |
| Domain   | dB       | \[0.2    | CDP      |          |          |
| Power    |          | dB\]     | accuracy |          |          |
| Accuracy | For -10  |          | + TT     |          |          |
| for      | dB ≥ -15 | For -10  |          |          |          |
| HS-DPCCh | dB CDP ± | dB ≥ -15 | For 0 dB |          |          |
| and      | 2.0 dB   | dB CDP   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| E-DCH    |          | \[0.3    | CDP \[±  |          |          |
| with     | For -15  | dB\]     | 1.7 dB\] |          |          |
| 16QAM    | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |          |
|          | dB CDP ± | For -15  | For -10  |          |          |
|          | 2.5 dB   | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
|          |          | dB CDP   | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          | For -20  | \[0.4    | \[± 2.3  |          |          |
|          | dB ≥ -30 | dB\]     | dB\]     |          |          |
|          | dB CDP ± |          |          |          |          |
|          | 3.0 dB   | For -20  | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          | dB ≥ -30 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          | dB CDP   | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          |          | \[0.5    | \[± 2.9  |          |          |
|          |          | dB\]     | dB\]     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -20  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -30 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          |          |          | \[± 3.5  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\]     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2 EA   | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| UE       | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| relative | CDP ±1.5 | CDP      | relative |          |          |
| code     | dB       | \[0.2    | CDP      |          |          |
| domain   |          | dB\]     | accuracy |          |          |
| power    | For -10  |          | + TT     |          |          |
| accuracy | dB ≥ -15 | For -10  |          |          |          |
| for      | dB CDP ± | dB ≥ -15 | For 0 dB |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | 2.0 dB   | dB CDP   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| using    |          | \[0.3    | CDP \[±  |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | For -15  | dB\]     | 1.7 dB\] |          |          |
| and      | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |          |
| E-DCH    | dB CDP ± | For -15  | For -10  |          |          |
| with     | 2.5 dB   | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
| 16QAM    |          | dB CDP   | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          | For -20  | \[0.4    | \[± 2.3  |          |          |
|          | dB ≥ -30 | dB\]     | dB\]     |          |          |
|          | dB CDP ± |          |          |          |          |
|          | 3.0 dB   | For -20  | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          | dB ≥ -30 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          | dB CDP   | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          |          | \[0.5    | \[± 2.9  |          |          |
|          |          | dB\]     | dB\]     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -20  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -30 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          |          |          | \[± 3.5  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\]     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2 EB   | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| UE       | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| Relative | CDP ±1.5 | CDP      | relative |          |          |
| Code     | dB       | \[0.2    | CDP      |          |          |
| Domain   |          | dB\]     | accuracy |          |          |
| Power    | For -10  |          | + TT     |          |          |
| Accuracy | dB ≥ -15 | For -10  |          |          |          |
| for      | dB CDP ± | dB ≥ -15 | For 0 dB |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 2.0 dB   | dB CDP   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| and      |          | \[0.3    | CDP \[±  |          |          |
| E-DCH    | For -15  | dB\]     | 1.7 dB\] |          |          |
| with     | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |          |
| 16QAM    | dB CDP ± | For -15  | For -10  |          |          |
| for UL   | 2.5 dB   | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
| OLTD     |          | dB CDP   | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          | For -20  | \[0.4    | \[± 2.3  |          |          |
|          | dB ≥ -30 | dB\]     | dB\]     |          |          |
|          | dB CDP ± |          |          |          |          |
|          | 3.0 dB   | For -20  | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          | dB ≥ -30 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          | dB CDP   | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          |          | \[0.5    | \[± 2.9  |          |          |
|          |          | dB\]     | dB\]     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -20  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -30 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          |          |          | \[± 3.5  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\]     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2 EC   | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| UE       | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| Relative | CDP ±1.5 | CDP      | relative |          |          |
| Code     | dB       | \[0.2    | CDP      |          |          |
| Domain   |          | dB\]     | accuracy |          |          |
| Power    | For -10  |          | + TT     |          |          |
| Accuracy | dB ≥ -15 | For -10  |          |          |          |
| for      | dB CDP ± | dB ≥ -15 | For 0 dB |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 2.0 dB   | dB CDP   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| and      |          | \[0.3    | CDP \[±  |          |          |
| E-DCH    | For -15  | dB\]     | 1.7 dB\] |          |          |
| with     | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |          |
| 16QAM    | dB CDP ± | For -15  | For -10  |          |          |
| for UL   | 2.5 dB   | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
| CLTD     |          | dB CDP   | dB CDP   |          |          |
| ac       | For -20  | \[0.4    | \[± 2.3  |          |          |
| tivation | dB ≥ -30 | dB\]     | dB\]     |          |          |
| state 1  | dB CDP ± |          |          |          |          |
|          | 3.0 dB   | For -20  | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          | dB ≥ -30 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          | dB CDP   | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          |          | \[0.5    | \[± 2.9  |          |          |
|          |          | dB\]     | dB\]     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -20  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -30 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          |          |          | \[± 3.5  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\]     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.2 ED   | For 0 dB | For 0 dB | Formula: |          |          |
| UE       | ≥ -10 dB | ≥ -10 dB | UE       |          |          |
| Relative | CDP ±1.5 | CDP      | relative |          |          |
| Code     | dB       | \[0.2    | CDP      |          |          |
| Domain   |          | dB\]     | accuracy |          |          |
| Power    | For -10  |          | + TT     |          |          |
| Accuracy | dB ≥ -15 | For -10  |          |          |          |
| for      | dB CDP ± | dB ≥ -15 | For 0 dB |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | 2.0 dB   | dB CDP   | ≥ -10 dB |          |          |
| and      |          | \[0.3    | CDP \[±  |          |          |
| E-DCH    | For -15  | dB\]     | 1.7 dB\] |          |          |
| with     | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |          |          |
| 16QAM    | dB CDP ± | For -15  | For -10  |          |          |
| for UL   | 2.5 dB   | dB ≥ -20 | dB ≥ -15 |          |          |
| CLTD     |          | dB CDP   | dB CDP   |          |          |
| ac       | For -20  | \[0.4    | \[± 2.3  |          |          |
| tivation | dB ≥ -30 | dB\]     | dB\]     |          |          |
| state 2  | dB CDP ± |          |          |          |          |
| and 3    | 3.0 dB   | For -20  | For -15  |          |          |
|          |          | dB ≥ -30 | dB ≥ -20 |          |          |
|          |          | dB CDP   | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          |          | \[0.5    | \[± 2.9  |          |          |
|          |          | dB\]     | dB\]     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For -20  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB ≥ -30 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB CDP   |          |          |
|          |          |          | \[± 3.5  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\]     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.3      | The UE   | 10 Hz    | Formula: |          |          |
| F        | m        |          | m        |          |          |
| requency | odulated |          | odulated |          |          |
| Error    | carrier  |          | carrier  |          |          |
|          | f        |          | f        |          |          |
|          | requency |          | requency |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | error +  |          |          |
|          | accurate |          | TT       |          |          |
|          | to       |          |          |          |          |
|          | within   |          | m        |          |          |
|          | ±0.1 ppm |          | odulated |          |          |
|          | compared |          | carrier  |          |          |
|          | to the   |          | f        |          |          |
|          | carrier  |          | requency |          |          |
|          | f        |          | error =  |          |          |
|          | requency |          | ±(0.1    |          |          |
|          | received |          | ppm + 10 |          |          |
|          | from the |          | Hz).     |          |          |
|          | Node B.  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.3B     | The UE   | 10 Hz    | Formula: |          |          |
| F        | m        |          | m        |          |          |
| requency | odulated |          | odulated |          |          |
| error    | carrier  |          | carrier  |          |          |
| for UL   | f        |          | f        |          |          |
| OLTD     | requency |          | requency |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | error +  |          |          |
|          | accurate |          | TT       |          |          |
|          | to       |          |          |          |          |
|          | within   |          | m        |          |          |
|          | ±0.1 ppm |          | odulated |          |          |
|          | compared |          | carrier  |          |          |
|          | to the   |          | f        |          |          |
|          | carrier  |          | requency |          |          |
|          | f        |          | error =  |          |          |
|          | requency |          | ±(0.1    |          |          |
|          | received |          | ppm + 10 |          |          |
|          | from the |          | Hz).     |          |          |
|          | Node B.  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.3C     | The UE   | 10 Hz    | Formula: |          |          |
| F        | m        |          | m        |          |          |
| requency | odulated |          | odulated |          |          |
| error    | carrier  |          | carrier  |          |          |
| for UL   | f        |          | f        |          |          |
| CLTD     | requency |          | requency |          |          |
| Ac       | shall be |          | error +  |          |          |
| tivation | accurate |          | TT       |          |          |
| state 1  | to       |          |          |          |          |
|          | within   |          | m        |          |          |
|          | ±0.1 ppm |          | odulated |          |          |
|          | compared |          | carrier  |          |          |
|          | to the   |          | f        |          |          |
|          | carrier  |          | requency |          |          |
|          | f        |          | error =  |          |          |
|          | requency |          | ±(0.1    |          |          |
|          | received |          | ppm + 10 |          |          |
|          | from the |          | Hz).     |          |          |
|          | Node B.  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.3D     | The UE   | 10 Hz    | Formula: |          |          |
| F        | m        |          | m        |          |          |
| requency | odulated |          | odulated |          |          |
| error    | carrier  |          | carrier  |          |          |
| for UL   | f        |          | f        |          |          |
| CLTD     | requency |          | requency |          |          |
| Ac       | shall be |          | error +  |          |          |
| tivation | accurate |          | TT       |          |          |
| state 2  | to       |          |          |          |          |
| and 3    | within   |          | m        |          |          |
|          | ±0.1 ppm |          | odulated |          |          |
|          | compared |          | carrier  |          |          |
|          | to the   |          | f        |          |          |
|          | carrier  |          | requency |          |          |
|          | f        |          | error =  |          |          |
|          | requency |          | ±(0.1    |          |          |
|          | received |          | ppm + 10 |          |          |
|          | from the |          | Hz).     |          |          |
|          | Node B.  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.1    | Open     | 1.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Open     | loop     |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| loop     | power    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| power    | control  |          | Req      |          |          |
| control  | t        |          | uirement |          |          |
| in the   | olerance |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| uplink   | ±9 dB    |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          | (Normal) |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | Open     |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | loop     |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | control  |          | For      |          |          |
|          | t        |          | Normal   |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | con      |          |          |
|          | ±12 dB   |          | ditions: |          |          |
|          | (        |          |          |          |          |
|          | Extreme) |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 dB\  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -10 dB   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | Extreme  |          |          |
|          |          |          | con      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ditions: |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +13 dB\  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -13 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.1A   | Open     | 1.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Open     | loop     |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| loop     | power    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| power    | control  |          | Req      |          |          |
| control  | t        |          | uirement |          |          |
| in the   | olerance |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| uplink   | ±9 dB    |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
| for      | (Normal) |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | Open     |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | loop     |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | power    |          |          |          |          |
|          | control  |          | For      |          |          |
|          | t        |          | Normal   |          |          |
|          | olerance |          | con      |          |          |
|          | ±12 dB   |          | ditions: |          |          |
|          | (        |          |          |          |          |
|          | Extreme) |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 dB\  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -10 dB   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For      |          |          |
|          |          |          | Extreme  |          |          |
|          |          |          | con      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ditions: |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Upper    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +13 dB\  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | T        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -13 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.2    | See      | 0.1dB    | Formula: |          |          |
| Inner    | table    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| loop     | 5.4.2.1  | 0.15 dB  | Minimum  |          |          |
| power    | and      |          | Req      |          |          |
| control  | 5.4.2.2  | 0.2 dB   | uirement |          |          |
| in       |          |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| uplink   |          | 0.3 dB   | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | -- TT    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.2A   | See      | 0.1dB    | Formula: |          |          |
| Inner    | table    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| loop     | 5.4.2.1  | 0.15 dB  | Minimum  |          |          |
| power    | and      |          | Req      |          |          |
| control  | 5.4.2.2  | 0.2 dB   | uirement |          |          |
| in       |          |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| uplink   |          | 0.3 dB   | (Lower)  |          |          |
| for      |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | -- TT    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.2B   | See      | 0.1dB    | Formula: |          |          |
| Inner    | table    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Loop     | 5.4.2.1  | 0.15 dB  | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | and      |          | Req      |          |          |
| Control  | 5.4.2.2  | 0.2 dB   | uirement |          |          |
| in the   |          |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| Uplink   |          | 0.3 dB   | (Lower)  |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| OLTD     |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | -- TT    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.2C   | See      | 0.1dB    | Formula: |          |          |
| Inner    | table    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Loop     | 5.4.2.1  | 0.15 dB  | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | and      |          | Req      |          |          |
| Control  | 5.4.2.2  | 0.2 dB   | uirement |          |          |
| in the   |          |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| Uplink   |          | 0.3 dB   | (Lower)  |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| CLTD     |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| ac       |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| tivation |          |          | -- TT    |          |          |
| state 1  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.2D   | See      | 0.1dB    | Formula: |          |          |
| Inner    | table    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| Loop     | 5.4.2.1  | 0.15 dB  | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | and      |          | Req      |          |          |
| Control  | 5.4.2.2  | 0.2 dB   | uirement |          |          |
| in the   |          |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| Uplink   |          | 0.3 dB   | (Lower)  |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| CLTD     |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| ac       |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| tivation |          |          | -- TT    |          |          |
| state 2  |          |          |          |          |          |
| and 3    |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.3    | UE       | 1.0 dB   | F        |          |          |
| Minimum  | minimum  |          | ormula:\ |          |          |
| Output   | transmit |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | power    |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | less     |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | than     |          |          |          |          |
|          | --50 dBm |          | UE       |          |          |
|          |          |          | minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | power =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | --49 dBm |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.3A   | UE       | 1.0 dB   | F        |          |          |
| Minimum  | minimum  |          | ormula:\ |          |          |
| Output   | transmit |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | power    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for      | shall be |          | uirement |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | less     |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | than     |          |          |          |          |
|          | --50 dBm |          | UE       |          |          |
|          |          |          | minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | power =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | --49 dBm |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.3C   | UE       | 1.0 dB   | F        |          |          |
| Minimum  | minimum  |          | ormula:\ |          |          |
| Output   | transmit |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | power    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for UL   | shall be |          | uirement |          |          |
| CLTD     | less     |          | + TT     |          |          |
| Ac       | than     |          |          |          |          |
| tivation | --50 dBm |          | UE       |          |          |
| state 1  |          |          | minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | power =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -49 dBm  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.3D   | UE       | 1.0 dB   | F        |          |          |
| Minimum  | minimum  |          | ormula:\ |          |          |
| Output   | transmit |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Power    | power    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for UL   | shall be |          | uirement |          |          |
| CLTD     | less     |          | + TT     |          |          |
| Ac       | than     |          |          |          |          |
| tivation | --50 dBm |          | UE       |          |          |
| state 2  |          |          | minimum  |          |          |
| and 3    |          |          | transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | power =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -49 dBm  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.4    | $        | 0.4 dB   | Fo       |          |          |
| Out-of   | \ \frac{ |          | rmulas:\ |          |          |
| -synchro | \text{DP | for      | Minimum  |          |          |
| nisation | CCH}_{}} | $        | Req      |          |          |
| handling | {I_{\tex | \ \frac{ | uirement |          |          |
| of       | t{or}}}$ | \text{DP | between  |          |          |
| output   | levels   | CCH}_{}} | A and B  |          |          |
| power:   |          | {I_{\tex | + TT\    |          |          |
|          | AB: -22  | t{or}}}$ | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | dB\      |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | BD: -28  | 0 ms for | uirement |          |          |
|          | dB\      | timing   | between  |          |          |
|          | DE: -24  | mea      | B and D  |          |          |
|          | dB\      | surement | -- TT\   |          |          |
|          | EF: -18  |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | transmit |          | between  |          |          |
|          | ON/OFF   |          | D and E  |          |          |
|          | time\    |          | -- TT\   |          |          |
|          | 200ms    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | $        |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | \ \frac{ |          | between  |          |          |
|          | \text{DP |          | E and F  |          |          |
|          | DCH}_{}} |          | + TT\    |          |          |
|          | {I_{\tex |          | transmit |          |          |
|          | t{or}}}$ |          | ON/OFF   |          |          |
|          | = -16.6  |          | time     |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | $I_{\te  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | - 60 dBm |          | timing   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | ${\ha    |          | $        |          |          |
|          | t{I}}_{\ |          | \ \frac{ |          |          |
|          | text{or} |          | \text{DP |          |          |
|          | }/I_{\te |          | DCH}_{}} |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          | = - 1 dB |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -16.6  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $I_{\te  |          |          |
|          |          |          | xt{oc}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | - 60 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | ${\ha    |          |          |
|          |          |          | t{I}}_{\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | text{or} |          |          |
|          |          |          | }/I_{\te |          |          |
|          |          |          | xt{oc}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | = - 1 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $        |          |          |
|          |          |          | \ \frac{ |          |          |
|          |          |          | \text{DP |          |          |
|          |          |          | CCH}_{}} |          |          |
|          |          |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          |          |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | levels:\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | AB:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -21.6    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | BD:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -28.4    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | DE:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -24.4    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | EF:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -17.6 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | ON/OFF   |          |          |
|          |          |          | time\    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 200ms    |          |          |
|          |          |          | timing   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Unc      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ertainty |          |          |
|          |          |          | of OFF   |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | mea      |          |          |
|          |          |          | surement |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | handled  |          |          |
|          |          |          | by       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | OFF      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | test and |          |          |
|          |          |          | unc      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ertainty |          |          |
|          |          |          | of ON    |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | mea      |          |          |
|          |          |          | surement |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | handled  |          |          |
|          |          |          | by       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | output   |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | test.    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.4A   | $        | 0.4 dB   | Fo       |          |          |
| Out-of   | \ \frac{ |          | rmulas:\ |          |          |
| -synchro | \text{DP | for      | Minimum  |          |          |
| nisation | CCH}_{}} | $        | Req      |          |          |
| handling | {I_{\tex | \ \frac{ | uirement |          |          |
| of       | t{or}}}$ | \text{DP | between  |          |          |
| output   | levels   | CCH}_{}} | A and B  |          |          |
| power    |          | {I_{\tex | + TT\    |          |          |
| for a UE | AB: -25  | t{or}}}$ | Minimum  |          |          |
| which    | dB\      |          | Req      |          |          |
| supports | BD: -31  | 0 ms for | uirement |          |          |
| type 1   | dB\      | timing   | between  |          |          |
| for DCH: | DE: -27  | mea      | B and D  |          |          |
|          | dB\      | surement | -- TT\   |          |          |
|          | EF: -21  |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | transmit |          | between  |          |          |
|          | ON/OFF   |          | D and E  |          |          |
|          | time\    |          | -- TT\   |          |          |
|          | 200ms    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | $        |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | \ \frac{ |          | between  |          |          |
|          | \text{DP |          | E and F  |          |          |
|          | DCH}_{}} |          | + TT\    |          |          |
|          | {I_{\tex |          | transmit |          |          |
|          | t{or}}}$ |          | ON/OFF   |          |          |
|          | = -19.6  |          | time     |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | $I_{\te  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | - 60 dBm |          | timing   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | ${\ha    |          | $        |          |          |
|          | t{I}}_{\ |          | \ \frac{ |          |          |
|          | text{or} |          | \text{DP |          |          |
|          | }/I_{\te |          | DCH}_{}} |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          | = - 1 dB |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -19.6  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $I_{\te  |          |          |
|          |          |          | xt{oc}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | - 60 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | ${\ha    |          |          |
|          |          |          | t{I}}_{\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | text{or} |          |          |
|          |          |          | }/I_{\te |          |          |
|          |          |          | xt{oc}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | = - 1 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $        |          |          |
|          |          |          | \ \frac{ |          |          |
|          |          |          | \text{DP |          |          |
|          |          |          | CCH}_{}} |          |          |
|          |          |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          |          |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | levels:\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | AB:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -24.6    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | BD:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -31.4    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | DE:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -27.4    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | EF:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -20.6 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | ON/OFF   |          |          |
|          |          |          | time\    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 200ms    |          |          |
|          |          |          | timing   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Unc      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ertainty |          |          |
|          |          |          | of OFF   |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | mea      |          |          |
|          |          |          | surement |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | handled  |          |          |
|          |          |          | by       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | OFF      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | test and |          |          |
|          |          |          | unc      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ertainty |          |          |
|          |          |          | of ON    |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | mea      |          |          |
|          |          |          | surement |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | handled  |          |          |
|          |          |          | by       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | output   |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | test.    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.4B   | $        | 0.4 dB   | Fo       |          |          |
| Out-of   | \ \frac{ |          | rmulas:\ |          |          |
| -synchro | \text{DP | for      | Minimum  |          |          |
| nisation | CCH}_{}} | $        | Req      |          |          |
| handling | {I_{\tex | \ \frac{ | uirement |          |          |
| of       | t{or}}}$ | \text{DP | between  |          |          |
| output   | levels   | CCH}_{}} | A and B  |          |          |
| power    |          | {I_{\tex | + TT\    |          |          |
| for UL   | AB: -22  | t{or}}}$ | Minimum  |          |          |
| OLTD     | dB\      |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | BD: -28  | 0 ms for | uirement |          |          |
|          | dB\      | timing   | between  |          |          |
|          | DE: -24  | mea      | B and D  |          |          |
|          | dB\      | surement | -- TT\   |          |          |
|          | EF: -18  |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | transmit |          | between  |          |          |
|          | ON/OFF   |          | D and E  |          |          |
|          | time\    |          | -- TT\   |          |          |
|          | 200ms    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | $        |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | \ \frac{ |          | between  |          |          |
|          | \text{DP |          | E and F  |          |          |
|          | DCH}_{}} |          | + TT\    |          |          |
|          | {I_{\tex |          | transmit |          |          |
|          | t{or}}}$ |          | ON/OFF   |          |          |
|          | = -16.6  |          | time     |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | $I_{\te  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | - 60 dBm |          | timing   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | ${\ha    |          | $        |          |          |
|          | t{I}}_{\ |          | \ \frac{ |          |          |
|          | text{or} |          | \text{DP |          |          |
|          | }/I_{\te |          | DCH}_{}} |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          | = - 1 dB |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -16.6  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $I_{\te  |          |          |
|          |          |          | xt{oc}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | - 60 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | ${\ha    |          |          |
|          |          |          | t{I}}_{\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | text{or} |          |          |
|          |          |          | }/I_{\te |          |          |
|          |          |          | xt{oc}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | = - 1 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $        |          |          |
|          |          |          | \ \frac{ |          |          |
|          |          |          | \text{DP |          |          |
|          |          |          | CCH}_{}} |          |          |
|          |          |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          |          |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | levels:\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | AB:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -21.6    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | BD:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -28.4    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | DE:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -24.4    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | EF:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -17.6 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | ON/OFF   |          |          |
|          |          |          | time\    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 200ms    |          |          |
|          |          |          | timing   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Unc      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ertainty |          |          |
|          |          |          | of OFF   |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | mea      |          |          |
|          |          |          | surement |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | handled  |          |          |
|          |          |          | by       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | OFF      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | test and |          |          |
|          |          |          | unc      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ertainty |          |          |
|          |          |          | of ON    |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | mea      |          |          |
|          |          |          | surement |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | handled  |          |          |
|          |          |          | by       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | output   |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | test.    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.4C   | $        | 0.4 dB   | Fo       |          |          |
| Out-of   | \ \frac{ |          | rmulas:\ |          |          |
| -synchro | \text{DP | for      | Minimum  |          |          |
| nisation | CCH}_{}} | $        | Req      |          |          |
| handling | {I_{\tex | \ \frac{ | uirement |          |          |
| of       | t{or}}}$ | \text{DP | between  |          |          |
| output   | levels   | CCH}_{}} | A and B  |          |          |
| power    |          | {I_{\tex | + TT\    |          |          |
| for UL   | AB: -22  | t{or}}}$ | Minimum  |          |          |
| CLTD     | dB\      |          | Req      |          |          |
| ac       | BD: -28  | 0 ms for | uirement |          |          |
| tivation | dB\      | timing   | between  |          |          |
| state 1  | DE: -24  | mea      | B and D  |          |          |
|          | dB\      | surement | -- TT\   |          |          |
|          | EF: -18  |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | transmit |          | between  |          |          |
|          | ON/OFF   |          | D and E  |          |          |
|          | time\    |          | -- TT\   |          |          |
|          | 200ms    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | $        |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | \ \frac{ |          | between  |          |          |
|          | \text{DP |          | E and F  |          |          |
|          | DCH}_{}} |          | + TT\    |          |          |
|          | {I_{\tex |          | transmit |          |          |
|          | t{or}}}$ |          | ON/OFF   |          |          |
|          | = -16.6  |          | time     |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | $I_{\te  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | - 60 dBm |          | timing   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | ${\ha    |          | $        |          |          |
|          | t{I}}_{\ |          | \ \frac{ |          |          |
|          | text{or} |          | \text{DP |          |          |
|          | }/I_{\te |          | DCH}_{}} |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          | = - 1 dB |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -16.6  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $I_{\te  |          |          |
|          |          |          | xt{oc}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | - 60 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | ${\ha    |          |          |
|          |          |          | t{I}}_{\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | text{or} |          |          |
|          |          |          | }/I_{\te |          |          |
|          |          |          | xt{oc}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | = - 1 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $        |          |          |
|          |          |          | \ \frac{ |          |          |
|          |          |          | \text{DP |          |          |
|          |          |          | CCH}_{}} |          |          |
|          |          |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          |          |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | levels:\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | AB:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -21.6    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | BD:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -28.4    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | DE:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -24.4    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | EF:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -17.6 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | ON/OFF   |          |          |
|          |          |          | time\    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 200ms    |          |          |
|          |          |          | timing   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Unc      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ertainty |          |          |
|          |          |          | of OFF   |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | mea      |          |          |
|          |          |          | surement |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | handled  |          |          |
|          |          |          | by       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | OFF      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | test and |          |          |
|          |          |          | unc      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ertainty |          |          |
|          |          |          | of ON    |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | mea      |          |          |
|          |          |          | surement |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | handled  |          |          |
|          |          |          | by       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | output   |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | test.    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.4D   | $        | 0.4 dB   | Fo       |          |          |
| Out-of   | \ \frac{ |          | rmulas:\ |          |          |
| -synchro | \text{DP | for      | Minimum  |          |          |
| nisation | CCH}_{}} | $        | Req      |          |          |
| handling | {I_{\tex | \ \frac{ | uirement |          |          |
| of       | t{or}}}$ | \text{DP | between  |          |          |
| output   | levels   | CCH}_{}} | A and B  |          |          |
| power    |          | {I_{\tex | + TT\    |          |          |
| for UL   | AB: -22  | t{or}}}$ | Minimum  |          |          |
| CLTD     | dB\      |          | Req      |          |          |
| ac       | BD: -28  | 0 ms for | uirement |          |          |
| tivation | dB\      | timing   | between  |          |          |
| state 2  | DE: -24  | mea      | B and D  |          |          |
| and 3    | dB\      | surement | -- TT\   |          |          |
|          | EF: -18  |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | transmit |          | between  |          |          |
|          | ON/OFF   |          | D and E  |          |          |
|          | time\    |          | -- TT\   |          |          |
|          | 200ms    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | $        |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | \ \frac{ |          | between  |          |          |
|          | \text{DP |          | E and F  |          |          |
|          | DCH}_{}} |          | + TT\    |          |          |
|          | {I_{\tex |          | transmit |          |          |
|          | t{or}}}$ |          | ON/OFF   |          |          |
|          | = -16.6  |          | time     |          |          |
|          | dB       |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | $I_{\te  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | - 60 dBm |          | timing   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | ${\ha    |          | $        |          |          |
|          | t{I}}_{\ |          | \ \frac{ |          |          |
|          | text{or} |          | \text{DP |          |          |
|          | }/I_{\te |          | DCH}_{}} |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          | = - 1 dB |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -16.6  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $I_{\te  |          |          |
|          |          |          | xt{oc}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | - 60 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | ${\ha    |          |          |
|          |          |          | t{I}}_{\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | text{or} |          |          |
|          |          |          | }/I_{\te |          |          |
|          |          |          | xt{oc}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | = - 1 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | $        |          |          |
|          |          |          | \ \frac{ |          |          |
|          |          |          | \text{DP |          |          |
|          |          |          | CCH}_{}} |          |          |
|          |          |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          |          |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          |          |          | levels:\ |          |          |
|          |          |          | AB:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -21.6    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | BD:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -28.4    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | DE:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -24.4    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB\      |          |          |
|          |          |          | EF:      |          |          |
|          |          |          | -17.6 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | ON/OFF   |          |          |
|          |          |          | time\    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 200ms    |          |          |
|          |          |          | timing   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Unc      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ertainty |          |          |
|          |          |          | of OFF   |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | mea      |          |          |
|          |          |          | surement |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | handled  |          |          |
|          |          |          | by       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | OFF      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | test and |          |          |
|          |          |          | unc      |          |          |
|          |          |          | ertainty |          |          |
|          |          |          | of ON    |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | mea      |          |          |
|          |          |          | surement |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | handled  |          |          |
|          |          |          | by       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | output   |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | test.    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.4.5    | $\ \f    | 0.4 dB   | F        |          |          |
| Out of   | rac{F -  |          | ormulas: |          |          |
| quality  | \text{TP | for      |          |          |          |
| handling | ICH}_{}} | $\ \f    | Minimum  |          |          |
| of TPI   | {I_{\tex | rac{F -  | Req      |          |          |
| for UL   | t{or}}}$ | \text{TP | uirement |          |          |
| CLTD     | levels   | ICH}_{}} | Before A |          |          |
| ac       |          | {I_{\tex | + TT     |          |          |
| tivation | Before A | t{or}}}$ |          |          |          |
| state 1  | : -7 dB\ |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | A to C : |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | -26 dB\  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | After C  |          | between  |          |          |
|          | : -12 dB |          | B and    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | $\ \f    |          | C -- TT  |          |          |
|          | rac{F -  |          |          |          |          |
|          | \text{TP |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | ICH}_{}} |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | {I_{\tex |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | t{or}}}$ |          | after C  |          |          |
|          | = -7 dB  |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | $I_{\te  |          | $\ \f    |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | rac{F -  |          |          |
|          | - 60 dBm |          | \text{TP |          |          |
|          |          |          | ICH}_{}} |          |          |
|          | ${\ha    |          | {I_{\tex |          |          |
|          | t{I}}_{\ |          | t{or}}}$ |          |          |
|          | text{or} |          | levels   |          |          |
|          | }/I_{\te |          |          |          |          |
|          | xt{oc}}$ |          | Before A |          |          |
|          | = - 1 dB |          | : -6.6   |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | A to C : |          |          |
|          |          |          | -26.4 dB |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | After C  |          |          |
|          |          |          | : -11.6  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB       |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.5.1    | Transmit | 1.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Transmit | OFF      |          | Transmit |          |          |
| OFF      | power    |          | OFF      |          |          |
| power    | shall be |          | power    |          |          |
| (static  | less     |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| case)    | than -56 |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | dBm      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | OFF      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | --55dBm. |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.5.2    | Transmit | On power | Formula  |          |          |
| Transmit | ON power | upper TT | for      |          |          |
| ON/OFF   | shall be | = 0.7 dB | transmit |          |          |
| time     | the      |          | ON       |          |          |
| mask     | target   | On power | power:   |          |          |
| (dynamic | value as | lower TT |          |          |          |
| case)    | defined  | = 1.0 dB | (Upper)  |          |          |
|          | in       |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | clause   | Off      | Req      |          |          |
|          | 5.5.2.2  | power TT | uirement |          |          |
|          |          | = 1.0 dB | (        |          |          |
|          | Transmit |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          | OFF      |          | ON       |          |          |
|          | power    |          | power) + |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | On power |          |          |
|          | less     |          | upper TT |          |          |
|          | than -56 |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm      |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | (        |          |          |
|          |          |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | ON       |          |          |
|          |          |          | power) - |          |          |
|          |          |          | On power |          |          |
|          |          |          | lower TT |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | To       |          |          |
|          |          |          | c        |          |          |
|          |          |          | alculate |          |          |
|          |          |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | ON power |          |          |
|          |          |          | target   |          |          |
|          |          |          | value    |          |          |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |
|          |          |          | take the |          |          |
|          |          |          | nominal  |          |          |
|          |          |          | TX power |          |          |
|          |          |          | range    |          |          |
|          |          |          | from     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Table    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5.5.2.3  |          |          |
|          |          |          | then     |          |          |
|          |          |          | apply    |          |          |
|          |          |          | table    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5.4.1.1  |          |          |
|          |          |          | open     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limits   |          |          |
|          |          |          | then     |          |          |
|          |          |          | apply    |          |          |
|          |          |          | table    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5.7.1    |          |          |
|          |          |          | (only if |          |          |
|          |          |          | there    |          |          |
|          |          |          | has been |          |          |
|          |          |          | a        |          |          |
|          |          |          | tran     |          |          |
|          |          |          | smission |          |          |
|          |          |          | gap)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | then cap |          |          |
|          |          |          | the      |          |          |
|          |          |          | upper    |          |          |
|          |          |          | value    |          |          |
|          |          |          | using    |          |          |
|          |          |          | table    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5.2.1.   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Formula  |          |          |
|          |          |          | for      |          |          |
|          |          |          | transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | OFF      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power:   |          |          |
|          |          |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | OFF      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power    |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + Off    |          |          |
|          |          |          | power TT |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Transmit |          |          |
|          |          |          | OFF      |          |          |
|          |          |          | power =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -55 dBm  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.6      | TFC step | 0.3 dB   | For the  |          |          |
| Change   | size =   |          | nominal  |          |          |
| of TFC:  | 7dB (Up  |          | -7dB     |          |          |
| power    | or Down) |          | step:    |          |          |
| control  |          |          |          |          |          |
| step     | Tolera   |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| size     | nce=±2dB |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -9.3 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For the  |          |          |
|          |          |          | nominal  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +7dB     |          |          |
|          |          |          | step:    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | +9.3 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5,6AA    | TFC step | 0.3 dB   | For the  |          |          |
| Change   | size =   |          | nominal  |          |          |
| of TFC   | 7dB (Up  |          | -7dB     |          |          |
| for UL   | or Down) |          | step:    |          |          |
| OLTD     |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | Tolera   |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
|          | nce=±2dB |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -9.3 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For the  |          |          |
|          |          |          | nominal  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +7dB     |          |          |
|          |          |          | step:    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | +9.3 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5,6AB    | TFC step | 0.3 dB   | For the  |          |          |
| Change   | size =   |          | nominal  |          |          |
| of TFC   | 7dB (Up  |          | -7dB     |          |          |
| for UL   | or Down) |          | step:    |          |          |
| CLTD     |          |          |          |          |          |
| ac       | Tolera   |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| tivation | nce=±2dB |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| state 1  |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -9.3 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For the  |          |          |
|          |          |          | nominal  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +7dB     |          |          |
|          |          |          | step:    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | +9.3 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.6AC    | TFC step | 0.3 dB   | For the  |          |          |
| Change   | size =   |          | nominal  |          |          |
| of TFC   | 7dB (Up  |          | -7dB     |          |          |
| for UL   | or Down) |          | step:    |          |          |
| CLTD     |          |          |          |          |          |
| ac       | Tolera   |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| tivation | nce=±2dB |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| state 2  |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| and 3    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -4.7 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -9.3 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | For the  |          |          |
|          |          |          | nominal  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +7dB     |          |          |
|          |          |          | step:    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | +9.3 dB  |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | +4.7 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.7      | See      | Subset   | Formula: |          |          |
| Power    | tables   | of 5.4.2 | (Upper)  |          |          |
| setting  | 5.7.2    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| in       | and      |          | Req      |          |          |
| uplink   | 5.7.3    |          | uirement |          |          |
| co       |          |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| mpressed |          |          | (Lower)  |          |          |
| mode     |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | -- TT    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.7A     | See      | 0.1 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | table    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
|          | 5.7A.1   | 0.15 dB  | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | and      |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | 5.7A.2   | 0.2 dB   | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT\    |          |          |
|          |          | 0.3 dB   | (Lower)  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | -- TT    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.7AA    | A subset |          |          |          |          |
| Power    | of       |          |          |          |          |
| setting  | 5.4.2.   |          |          |          |          |
| in       |          |          |          |          |          |
| uplink   |          |          |          |          |          |
| co       |          |          |          |          |          |
| mpressed |          |          |          |          |          |
| mode for |          |          |          |          |          |
| UL OLTD  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.7BB    | See      | 0.1 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | table    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| power    | 5.7BB.1  | 0.15 dB  | Minimum  |          |          |
| control  | and      |          | Req      |          |          |
| for UL   | 5.7BB.2  | 0.2 dB   | uirement |          |          |
| CLTD     |          |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| ac       |          | 0.3 dB   | (Lower)  |          |          |
| tivation |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| state 1  |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | -- TT    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.7BC    | See      | 0.1 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | table    |          | (Upper)  |          |          |
| power    | 5.7BC.1  | 0.15 dB  | Minimum  |          |          |
| control  | and      |          | Req      |          |          |
| for UL   | 5.7BC.2  | 0.2 dB   | uirement |          |          |
| CLTD     |          |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| ac       |          | 0.3 dB   | (Lower)  |          |          |
| tivation |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| state 2  |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| and 3    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | -- TT    |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.8      | The      | 0 kHz    | Formula: |          |          |
| Occupied | occupied |          | occupied |          |          |
| B        | channel  |          | channel  |          |          |
| andwidth | b        |          | b        |          |          |
|          | andwidth |          | andwidth |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | less     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | than 5   |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | based on |          |          |          |          |
|          | a chip   |          | occupied |          |          |
|          | rate of  |          | channel  |          |          |
|          | 3.84     |          | b        |          |          |
|          | Mcps.    |          | andwidth |          |          |
|          |          |          | = 5.0    |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.8A     | The      | 0 kHz    | Formula: |          |          |
| Occupied | occupied |          | occupied |          |          |
| B        | channel  |          | channel  |          |          |
| andwidth | b        |          | b        |          |          |
| for      | andwidth |          | andwidth |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | shall be |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | less     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | than 10  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | based on |          |          |          |          |
|          | a chip   |          | occupied |          |          |
|          | rate of  |          | channel  |          |          |
|          | 3.84     |          | b        |          |          |
|          | Mcps.    |          | andwidth |          |          |
|          |          |          | = 10.0   |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.8B     | The      | 0 kHz    | Formula: |          |          |
| Occupied | occupied |          | occupied |          |          |
| B        | channel  |          | channel  |          |          |
| andwidth | b        |          | b        |          |          |
| (OBW)    | andwidth |          | andwidth |          |          |
| for UL   | shall be |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| OLTD     | less     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | than 5   |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | based on |          |          |          |          |
|          | a chip   |          | occupied |          |          |
|          | rate of  |          | channel  |          |          |
|          | 3.84     |          | b        |          |          |
|          | Mcps.    |          | andwidth |          |          |
|          |          |          | = 5.0    |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.8C     | The      | 0 kHz    | Formula: |          |          |
| Occupied | occupied |          | occupied |          |          |
| B        | channel  |          | channel  |          |          |
| andwidth | b        |          | b        |          |          |
| (OBW)    | andwidth |          | andwidth |          |          |
| for UL   | shall be |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| CLTD     | less     |          | Req      |          |          |
| Ac       | than 5   |          | uirement |          |          |
| tivation | MHz      |          | + TT     |          |          |
| state 1  | based on |          |          |          |          |
|          | a chip   |          | occupied |          |          |
|          | rate of  |          | channel  |          |          |
|          | 3.84     |          | b        |          |          |
|          | Mcps.    |          | andwidth |          |          |
|          |          |          | = 5.0    |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9      | Minimum  | 1.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Spectrum | req      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| emission | uirement |          | req      |          |          |
| mask     | defined  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | in       |          | + TT\    |          |          |
|          | TS25.101 |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          | Table    |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | 6.10.    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | The      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | lower    |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | limit    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | Add 1.5  |          |          |
|          | −50 dBm  |          | to       |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | MHz or   |          | req      |          |          |
|          | which    |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | ever is  |          | entries  |          |          |
|          | higher.  |          | in       |          |          |
|          | This is  |          | TS25.101 |          |          |
|          | e        |          | Table    |          |          |
|          | xpressed |          | 6.10.    |          |          |
|          | as the   |          |          |          |          |
|          | eq       |          | Zero     |          |          |
|          | uivalent |          | test     |          |          |
|          | power in |          | t        |          |          |
|          | the      |          | olerance |          |          |
|          | mea      |          | is       |          |          |
|          | surement |          | applied  |          |          |
|          | ba       |          | for      |          |          |
|          | nd-width |          | Ad       |          |          |
|          | used at  |          | ditional |          |          |
|          | each     |          | requ     |          |          |
|          | offset.  |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | for Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | II, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | IV Band  |          |          |
|          |          |          | V and    |          |          |
|          |          |          | Band X   |          |          |
|          |          |          | due to   |          |          |
|          |          |          | FCC      |          |          |
|          |          |          | re       |          |          |
|          |          |          | gulatory |          |          |
|          |          |          | requi    |          |          |
|          |          |          | rements. |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | The      |          |          |
|          |          |          | lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | shall be |          |          |
|          |          |          | −48.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
|          |          |          | or which |          |          |
|          |          |          | ever is  |          |          |
|          |          |          | higher.  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9A     | Minimum  | 1.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Spectrum | req      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| emission | uirement |          | req      |          |          |
| mask     | defined  |          | uirement |          |          |
| with     | in       |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | TS25.101 |          | Lower    |          |          |
|          | Table    |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | 6.10.    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | The      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | lower    |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | limit    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | Add 1.5  |          |          |
|          | −50 dBm  |          | to       |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | MHz or   |          | req      |          |          |
|          | which    |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | ever is  |          | entries  |          |          |
|          | higher.  |          | in       |          |          |
|          |          |          | TS25.101 |          |          |
|          |          |          | Table    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 6.10.    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Zero     |          |          |
|          |          |          | test     |          |          |
|          |          |          | t        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | applied  |          |          |
|          |          |          | for      |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ad       |          |          |
|          |          |          | ditional |          |          |
|          |          |          | requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | for Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | II, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | IV, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | V and    |          |          |
|          |          |          | Band X   |          |          |
|          |          |          | due to   |          |          |
|          |          |          | FCC      |          |          |
|          |          |          | re       |          |          |
|          |          |          | gulatory |          |          |
|          |          |          | requi    |          |          |
|          |          |          | rements. |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | The      |          |          |
|          |          |          | lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | shall be |          |          |
|          |          |          | −48.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
|          |          |          | or which |          |          |
|          |          |          | ever is  |          |          |
|          |          |          | higher.  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9AB    | Minimum  | 1.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Spectrum | req      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Emission | uirement |          | req      |          |          |
| Mask     | defined  |          | uirement |          |          |
| with     | in       |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | TS25.101 |          | Lower    |          |          |
| for UL   | Table    |          | limit    |          |          |
| CLTD     | 6.10.    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| ac       |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| tivation | The      |          | uirement |          |          |
| state 1  | lower    |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | limit    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | Add 1.5  |          |          |
|          | −50 dBm  |          | to       |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | MHz or   |          | req      |          |          |
|          | which    |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | ever is  |          | entries  |          |          |
|          | higher.  |          | in       |          |          |
|          |          |          | TS25.101 |          |          |
|          |          |          | Table    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 6.10.    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Zero     |          |          |
|          |          |          | test     |          |          |
|          |          |          | t        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | applied  |          |          |
|          |          |          | for      |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ad       |          |          |
|          |          |          | ditional |          |          |
|          |          |          | requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | for Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | II, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | IV, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | V and    |          |          |
|          |          |          | Band X   |          |          |
|          |          |          | due to   |          |          |
|          |          |          | FCC      |          |          |
|          |          |          | re       |          |          |
|          |          |          | gulatory |          |          |
|          |          |          | requi    |          |          |
|          |          |          | rements. |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | The      |          |          |
|          |          |          | lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | shall be |          |          |
|          |          |          | −48.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
|          |          |          | or which |          |          |
|          |          |          | ever is  |          |          |
|          |          |          | higher.  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9AC    | Minimum  | 1.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Spectrum | req      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Emission | uirement |          | req      |          |          |
| Mask     | defined  |          | uirement |          |          |
| with     | in       |          | + TT\    |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | TS25.101 |          | Lower    |          |          |
| for UL   | Table    |          | limit    |          |          |
| CLTD     | 6.10.    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| ac       |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| tivation | The      |          | uirement |          |          |
| state 2  | lower    |          | + TT     |          |          |
| and 3    | limit    |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | Add 1.5  |          |          |
|          | −50 dBm  |          | to       |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | MHz or   |          | req      |          |          |
|          | which    |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | ever is  |          | entries  |          |          |
|          | higher.  |          | in       |          |          |
|          |          |          | TS25.101 |          |          |
|          |          |          | Table    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 6.10.    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Zero     |          |          |
|          |          |          | test     |          |          |
|          |          |          | t        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | applied  |          |          |
|          |          |          | for      |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ad       |          |          |
|          |          |          | ditional |          |          |
|          |          |          | requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | for Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | II, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | IV, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | V and    |          |          |
|          |          |          | Band X   |          |          |
|          |          |          | due to   |          |          |
|          |          |          | FCC      |          |          |
|          |          |          | re       |          |          |
|          |          |          | gulatory |          |          |
|          |          |          | requi    |          |          |
|          |          |          | rements. |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | The      |          |          |
|          |          |          | lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | shall be |          |          |
|          |          |          | −48.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
|          |          |          | or which |          |          |
|          |          |          | ever is  |          |          |
|          |          |          | higher.  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9B     | Minimum  | 1.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Spectrum | req      |          | Lower    |          |          |
| emission | uirement |          | limit    |          |          |
| mask     | defined  |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| with     | in       |          | Req      |          |          |
| E-DCH    | TS25.101 |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | Table    |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | 6.10.    |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Add 1.5  |          |          |
|          | The      |          | to       |          |          |
|          | lower    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | limit    |          | req      |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | −50 dBm  |          | entries  |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | in       |          |          |
|          | MHz or   |          | TS25.101 |          |          |
|          | which    |          | Table    |          |          |
|          | ever is  |          | 6.10.    |          |          |
|          | higher.  |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Zero     |          |          |
|          |          |          | test     |          |          |
|          |          |          | t        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | applied  |          |          |
|          |          |          | for      |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ad       |          |          |
|          |          |          | ditional |          |          |
|          |          |          | requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | for Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | II, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | IV, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | V and    |          |          |
|          |          |          | Band X   |          |          |
|          |          |          | due to   |          |          |
|          |          |          | FCC      |          |          |
|          |          |          | re       |          |          |
|          |          |          | gulatory |          |          |
|          |          |          | requi    |          |          |
|          |          |          | rements. |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | The      |          |          |
|          |          |          | lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | shall be |          |          |
|          |          |          | −48.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
|          |          |          | or which |          |          |
|          |          |          | ever is  |          |          |
|          |          |          | higher.  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9BB    | Minimum  | 1.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Spectrum | req      |          | Lower    |          |          |
| Emission | uirement |          | limit    |          |          |
| Mask     | defined  |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| with     | in       |          | Req      |          |          |
| E-DCH    | TS25.101 |          | uirement |          |          |
| for UL   | Table    |          | + TT     |          |          |
| CLTD     | 6.10.    |          |          |          |          |
| ac       |          |          | Add 1.5  |          |          |
| tivation | The      |          | to       |          |          |
| state 1  | lower    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | limit    |          | req      |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | −50 dBm  |          | entries  |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | in       |          |          |
|          | MHz or   |          | TS25.101 |          |          |
|          | which    |          | Table    |          |          |
|          | ever is  |          | 6.10.    |          |          |
|          | higher.  |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Zero     |          |          |
|          |          |          | test     |          |          |
|          |          |          | t        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | applied  |          |          |
|          |          |          | for      |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ad       |          |          |
|          |          |          | ditional |          |          |
|          |          |          | requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | for Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | II, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | IV, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | V and    |          |          |
|          |          |          | Band X   |          |          |
|          |          |          | due to   |          |          |
|          |          |          | FCC      |          |          |
|          |          |          | re       |          |          |
|          |          |          | gulatory |          |          |
|          |          |          | requi    |          |          |
|          |          |          | rements. |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | The      |          |          |
|          |          |          | lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | shall be |          |          |
|          |          |          | −48.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
|          |          |          | or which |          |          |
|          |          |          | ever is  |          |          |
|          |          |          | higher.  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9BC    | Minimum  | 1.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Spectrum | req      |          | Lower    |          |          |
| Emission | uirement |          | limit    |          |          |
| Mask     | defined  |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| with     | in       |          | Req      |          |          |
| E-DCH    | TS25.101 |          | uirement |          |          |
| for UL   | Table    |          | + TT     |          |          |
| CLTD     | 6.10.    |          |          |          |          |
| ac       |          |          | Add 1.5  |          |          |
| tivation | The      |          | to       |          |          |
| state 2  | lower    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| and 3    | limit    |          | req      |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | −50 dBm  |          | entries  |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | in       |          |          |
|          | MHz or   |          | TS25.101 |          |          |
|          | which    |          | Table    |          |          |
|          | ever is  |          | 6.10.    |          |          |
|          | higher.  |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Zero     |          |          |
|          |          |          | test     |          |          |
|          |          |          | t        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | applied  |          |          |
|          |          |          | for      |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ad       |          |          |
|          |          |          | ditional |          |          |
|          |          |          | requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | for Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | II, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | IV, Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | V and    |          |          |
|          |          |          | Band X   |          |          |
|          |          |          | due to   |          |          |
|          |          |          | FCC      |          |          |
|          |          |          | re       |          |          |
|          |          |          | gulatory |          |          |
|          |          |          | requi    |          |          |
|          |          |          | rements. |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | The      |          |          |
|          |          |          | lower    |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | shall be |          |          |
|          |          |          | −48.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
|          |          |          | or which |          |          |
|          |          |          | ever is  |          |          |
|          |          |          | higher.  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9C     | Minimum  | 1.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Ad       | req      |          | Lower    |          |          |
| ditional | uirement |          | limit    |          |          |
| Spectrum | defined  |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Emission | in       |          | Req      |          |          |
| Mask for | TS25.101 |          | uirement |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | Table    |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (QPSK)   | 6.10D    |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Add 1.5  |          |          |
|          |          |          | to       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | entries  |          |          |
|          |          |          | in       |          |          |
|          |          |          | TS25.101 |          |          |
|          |          |          | Table    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 6.10D.   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Zero     |          |          |
|          |          |          | test     |          |          |
|          |          |          | t        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | applied  |          |          |
|          |          |          | for      |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ad       |          |          |
|          |          |          | ditional |          |          |
|          |          |          | requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | for Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | II, IV,  |          |          |
|          |          |          | V , X    |          |          |
|          |          |          | and XXV  |          |          |
|          |          |          | due to   |          |          |
|          |          |          | FCC      |          |          |
|          |          |          | re       |          |          |
|          |          |          | gulatory |          |          |
|          |          |          | requi    |          |          |
|          |          |          | rements. |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.9D     | Minimum  | 1.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Ad       | req      |          | Lower    |          |          |
| ditional | uirement |          | limit    |          |          |
| Spectrum | defined  |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Emission | in       |          | Req      |          |          |
| Mask for | TS25.101 |          | uirement |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | Table    |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (16QAM)  | 6.10D    |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Add 1.5  |          |          |
|          |          |          | to       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | entries  |          |          |
|          |          |          | in       |          |          |
|          |          |          | TS25.101 |          |          |
|          |          |          | Table    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 6.10D.   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Zero     |          |          |
|          |          |          | test     |          |          |
|          |          |          | t        |          |          |
|          |          |          | olerance |          |          |
|          |          |          | is       |          |          |
|          |          |          | applied  |          |          |
|          |          |          | for      |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ad       |          |          |
|          |          |          | ditional |          |          |
|          |          |          | requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | for Band |          |          |
|          |          |          | II, IV,  |          |          |
|          |          |          | V , X    |          |          |
|          |          |          | and XXV  |          |          |
|          |          |          | due to   |          |          |
|          |          |          | FCC      |          |          |
|          |          |          | re       |          |          |
|          |          |          | gulatory |          |          |
|          |          |          | requi    |          |          |
|          |          |          | rements. |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10     | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| Channel  | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| Leakage  | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| Power    | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| Ratio    | than     |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (ACLR)   | --50 dBm |          |          |          |          |
|          | then the |          |          |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | higher   |          |          |          |          |
|          | than the |          |          |          |          |
|          | values   |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below.   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          | +5 MHz   |          |          |          |          |
|          | or -5    |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | MHz,     |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | UE       |          |          |
|          |          |          | channel  |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | +5 MHz   |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | or -5    |          |          |
|          | +10 MHz  |          | MHz,     |          |          |
|          | or -10   |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | MHz,     |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 43 dB    |          | UE       |          |          |
|          |          |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 MHz  |          |          |
|          |          |          | or -10   |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz,     |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 42.2 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10A    | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| Channel  | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| Leakage  | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| Power    | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| Ratio    | than     |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (ACLR)   | --50 dBm |          |          |          |          |
| with     | then the |          |          |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | higher   |          |          |          |          |
|          | than the |          |          |          |          |
|          | values   |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below.   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | +5 MHz   |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | -5MHz,   |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +5 MHz   |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | or       |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -5MHz,   |          |          |
|          | +10 MHz  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Limit :  |          |          |
|          | -10MHz,  |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 43 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 MHz  |          |          |
|          |          |          | or       |          |          |
|          |          |          | -10MHz,  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          |          |          | 42.2 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10AA   | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| Channel  | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| Leakage  | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| Power    | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| Ratio    | than     |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (ACLR)   | --50 dBm |          |          |          |          |
| with     | then the |          |          |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
| for UL   | shall be |          |          |          |          |
| OLTD     | higher   |          |          |          |          |
|          | than the |          |          |          |          |
|          | values   |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below.   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | +5 MHz   |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | -5MHz,   |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +5 MHz   |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | or       |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -5MHz,   |          |          |
|          | +10 MHz  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Limit :  |          |          |
|          | -10MHz,  |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 43 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 MHz  |          |          |
|          |          |          | or       |          |          |
|          |          |          | -10MHz,  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          |          |          | 42.2 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10AB   | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| Channel  | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| Leakage  | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| Power    | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| Ratio    | than     |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (ACLR)   | --50 dBm |          |          |          |          |
| with     | then the |          |          |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
| for UL   | shall be |          |          |          |          |
| CLTD     | higher   |          |          |          |          |
| Ac       | than the |          |          |          |          |
| tivation | values   |          |          |          |          |
| state 1  | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below.   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | +5 MHz   |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | -5MHz,   |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +5 MHz   |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | or       |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -5MHz,   |          |          |
|          | +10 MHz  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Limit :  |          |          |
|          | -10MHz,  |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 43 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 MHz  |          |          |
|          |          |          | or       |          |          |
|          |          |          | -10MHz,  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          |          |          | 42.2 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10AC   | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| Channel  | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| Leakage  | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| Power    | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| Ratio    | than     |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (ACLR)   | --50 dBm |          |          |          |          |
| with     | then the |          |          |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
| for UL   | shall be |          |          |          |          |
| CLTD     | higher   |          |          |          |          |
| Ac       | than the |          |          |          |          |
| tivation | values   |          |          |          |          |
| state 2  | s        |          |          |          |          |
| and 3    | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below.   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | +5 MHz   |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | -5MHz,   |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +5 MHz   |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | or       |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -5MHz,   |          |          |
|          | +10 MHz  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Limit :  |          |          |
|          | -10MHz,  |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 43 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 MHz  |          |          |
|          |          |          | or       |          |          |
|          |          |          | -10MHz,  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          |          |          | 42.2 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10B    | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| Channel  | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| Leakage  | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| Power    | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| Ratio    | than     |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| (ACLR)   | --50 dBm |          | Req      |          |          |
| with     | then the |          | uirement |          |          |
| E-DCH    | ACLR     |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | higher   |          |          |          |          |
|          | than the |          |          |          |          |
|          | values   |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below.   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Requi    |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | rement-- |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | TT       |          |          |
|          | +5 MHz   |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | -5MHz,   |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +5 MHz   |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | or       |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -5MHz,   |          |          |
|          | +10 MHz  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          | -10MHz,  |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 43 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 MHz  |          |          |
|          |          |          | or       |          |          |
|          |          |          | -10MHz,  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Li       |          |          |
|          |          |          | mit:42.2 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB       |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10BA   | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| Channel  | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| Leakage  | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| Power    | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| Ratio    | than     |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (ACLR)   | --50 dBm |          |          |          |          |
| with     | then the |          |          |          |          |
| E-DCH    | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
| for UL   | shall be |          |          |          |          |
| OLTD     | higher   |          |          |          |          |
|          | than the |          |          |          |          |
|          | values   |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below.   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | +5 MHz   |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | -5MHz,   |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +5 MHz   |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | or       |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -5MHz,   |          |          |
|          | +10 MHz  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Limit :  |          |          |
|          | -10MHz,  |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 43 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 MHz  |          |          |
|          |          |          | or       |          |          |
|          |          |          | -10MHz,  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          |          |          | 42.2 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10BB   | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| Channel  | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| Leakage  | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| Power    | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| Ratio    | than     |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (ACLR)   | --50 dBm |          |          |          |          |
| with     | then the |          |          |          |          |
| E-DCH    | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
| for UL   | shall be |          |          |          |          |
| CLTD     | higher   |          |          |          |          |
| Ac       | than the |          |          |          |          |
| tivation | values   |          |          |          |          |
| state 1  | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below.   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | +5 MHz   |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | -5MHz,   |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +5 MHz   |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | or       |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -5MHz,   |          |          |
|          | +10 MHz  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Limit :  |          |          |
|          | -10MHz,  |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 43 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 MHz  |          |          |
|          |          |          | or       |          |          |
|          |          |          | -10MHz,  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          |          |          | 42.2 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10BC   | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| Channel  | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| Leakage  | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| Power    | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| Ratio    | than     |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (ACLR)   | --50 dBm |          |          |          |          |
| with     | then the |          |          |          |          |
| E-DCH    | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
| for UL   | shall be |          |          |          |          |
| CLTD     | higher   |          |          |          |          |
| Ac       | than the |          |          |          |          |
| tivation | values   |          |          |          |          |
| state 2  | s        |          |          |          |          |
| and 3    | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below.   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | +5 MHz   |          |          |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | -5MHz,   |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +5 MHz   |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | or       |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | -5MHz,   |          |          |
|          | +10 MHz  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | or       |          | Limit :  |          |          |
|          | -10MHz,  |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 43 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +10 MHz  |          |          |
|          |          |          | or       |          |          |
|          |          |          | -10MHz,  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          |          |          | 42.2 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10C    | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| ACLR     | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| with     | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| E-DCH    | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| for      | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | than     |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| (QPSK)   | --50 dBm |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | then the |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | higher   |          |          |          |          |
|          | than the |          |          |          |          |
|          | values   |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below.   |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Requi    |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | rement-- |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | TT       |          |          |
|          | +7.5 MHz |          |          |          |          |
|          | or -7.5  |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | MHz:     |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | UE       |          |          |
|          |          |          | channel  |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | +7.5 MHz |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | or       |          |          |
|          | +12.5    |          | -7.5MHz, |          |          |
|          | MHz or   |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | -12.5    |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          | MHz,     |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 36 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +12.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz or   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -12.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz,     |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          |          |          | 35.2 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.10D    | If the   | 0.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| ACLR     | adjacent |          | Absolute |          |          |
| with     | channel  |          | power    |          |          |
| E-DCH    | power is |          | t        |          |          |
| for      | greater  |          | hreshold |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | than     |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| (16QAM)  | --50 dBm |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | then the |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | shall be |          |          |          |          |
|          | higher   |          |          |          |          |
|          | than the |          |          |          |          |
|          | values   |          |          |          |          |
|          | s        |          |          |          |          |
|          | pecified |          |          |          |          |
|          | below    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Power    | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
|          | Classes  |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | 3 and 4: |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Requi    |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | rement-- |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | TT       |          |          |
|          | +7.5 MHz |          |          |          |          |
|          | or -7.5  |          | Power    |          |          |
|          | MHz:     |          | Classes  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          | 3 and 4: |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          |          |          |          |
|          | 33 dB    |          | UE       |          |          |
|          |          |          | channel  |          |          |
|          | UE       |          | +7.5 MHz |          |          |
|          | channel  |          | or       |          |          |
|          | +12.5    |          | -7.5MHz, |          |          |
|          | MHz or   |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          | -12.5    |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          | MHz,     |          | 32.2 dB  |          |          |
|          | ACLR     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit:   |          | UE       |          |          |
|          | 36 dB    |          | channel  |          |          |
|          |          |          | +12.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz or   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -12.5    |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz,     |          |          |
|          |          |          | ACLR     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Limit:   |          |          |
|          |          |          | 35.2 dB  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.11     |          |          | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| E        |          |          | Requ     |          |          |
| missions |          |          | irement+ |          |          |
|          |          |          | TT       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Add zero |          |          |
|          |          |          | to all   |          |          |
|          |          |          | the      |          |          |
|          |          |          | values   |          |          |
|          |          |          | of       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | in table |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5.11.1a  |          |          |
|          |          |          | and      |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5.11.1b. |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | F        | Minimum  |          | F        | Minimum  |
|          | requency | Req      |          | requency | Req      |
|          | Band     | uirement |          | Band     | uirement |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 9 kHz ≤  | −36dBm   | 0 dB     | 9kHz ≤ f | −36dBm   |
|          | f \< 150 |          |          | \< 1GHz  |          |
|          | kHz      | /1kHz    |          |          | /1kHz    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 150 kHz  | −36dBm   | 0 dB     | 150 kHz  | −36dBm   |
|          | ≤ f \<   |          |          | ≤ f \<   |          |
|          | 30 MHz   | /10kHz   |          | 30 MHz   | /10kHz   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 30 MHz ≤ | −36dBm   | 0 dB     | 30 MHz ≤ | −36dBm   |
|          | f \<     |          |          | f \<     |          |
|          | 1000 MHz | /100kHz  |          | 1000 MHz | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1 GHz ≤  | −30dBm   | 0 dB     | 1 GHz ≤  | −30dBm   |
|          | f \<     |          |          | f \< 2.2 |          |
|          | 12.75    | /1MHz    |          | GHz      | /1MHz    |
|          | GHz      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          | 0 dB     | 2.2 GHz  | −30dBm   |
|          |          |          |          | ≤ f \< 4 |          |
|          |          |          |          | GHz      | /1MHz    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          | 0 dB     | 4 GHz ≤  | −30dBm   |
|          |          |          |          | f \<     |          |
|          |          |          |          | 12.75    | /1MHz    |
|          |          |          |          | GHz      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1893.5   | −41dBm   | 0 dB     | 1893.5   | −41dBm   |
|          | MHz \< f |          |          | MHz \< f |          |
|          | \<       | /300kHz  |          | \<       | /300kHz  |
|          | 1915.7   |          |          | 1915.7   |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          | MHz      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 925 MHz  | −67dBm   | 0 dB     | 925 MHz  | −67dBm   |
|          | ≤ f ≤    |          |          | ≤ f ≤    |          |
|          | 935 MHz  | /100kHz  |          | 935 MHz  | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 935 MHz  | −79dBm   | 0 dB     | 935 MHz  | −79dBm   |
|          | \< f ≤   |          |          | \< f ≤   |          |
|          | 960 MHz  | /100kHz  |          | 960 MHz  | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1805 MHz | −71dBm   | 0 dB     | 1805 MHz | −71dBm   |
|          | ≤ f ≤    |          |          | ≤ f ≤    |          |
|          | 1880 MHz | /100kHz  |          | 1880 MHz | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.11A    | Intermo  | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious | dulation |          | CW       |          |          |
| E        | Product  |          | in       |          |          |
| missions |          |          | terferer |          |          |
| for      | 5MHz -31 |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | dBc      |          | Requi    |          |          |
| 5.12     |          |          | rement-- |          |          |
| Transmit | 10MHz    |          | TT/2     |          |          |
| Intermo  | -41 dBc  |          |          |          |          |
| dulation |          |          | Intermod |          |          |
|          | CW       |          | Products |          |          |
|          | In       |          | limits   |          |          |
|          | terferer |          | remain   |          |          |
|          | level =  |          | un       |          |          |
|          | -40 dBc  |          | changed. |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | CW       |          |          |
|          |          |          | in       |          |          |
|          |          |          | terferer |          |          |
|          |          |          | level =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -40 dBc  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.11B    | ± 2,0 dB |          |          |          |          |
| Spurious | for UE   |          |          |          |          |
| E        | and      |          |          |          |          |
| missions | coe      |          |          |          |          |
| for UL   | xistence |          |          |          |          |
| OLTD     | bands    |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | results  |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≥        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ‑60 dBm  |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | ± 3,0 dB |          |          |          |          |
|          | for      |          |          |          |          |
|          | results  |          |          |          |          |
|          | \< -60   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | Outside  |          |          |          |          |
|          | above:   |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | f        |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤2.2GHz: |          |          |          |          |
|          | ± 1.5 dB |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | 2.2 GHz  |          |          |          |          |
|          | \< f ≤ 4 |          |          |          |          |
|          | GHz:     |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | ± 2.0 dB |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | f \> 4   |          |          |          |          |
|          | GHz:     |          |          |          |          |
|          | ±4.0 dB  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.11C    |          |          | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| e        |          |          | Requ     |          |          |
| missions |          |          | irement+ |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          | TT       |          |          |
| CLTD     |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ac       |          |          | Add zero |          |          |
| tivation |          |          | to all   |          |          |
| state 1  |          |          | the      |          |          |
|          |          |          | values   |          |          |
|          |          |          | of       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | in table |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5.11C.1a |          |          |
|          |          |          | and      |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5        |          |          |
|          |          |          | .11C.1b. |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | F        | Minimum  |          | F        | Minimum  |
|          | requency | Req      |          | requency | Req      |
|          | Band     | uirement |          | Band     | uirement |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 9 kHz ≤  | −36dBm   | 0 dB     | 9 kHz ≤  | −36dBm   |
|          | f \< 150 |          |          | f \< 150 |          |
|          | kHz      | /1kHz    |          | kHz      | /1kHz    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 150 kHz  | −36dBm   | 0 dB     | 150 kHz  | −36dBm   |
|          | ≤ f \<   |          |          | ≤ f \<   |          |
|          | 30 MHz   | /10kHz   |          | 30 MHz   | /10kHz   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 30 MHz ≤ | −36dBm   | 0 dB     | 30 MHz ≤ | −36dBm   |
|          | f \<     |          |          | f \<     |          |
|          | 1000 MHz | /100kHz  |          | 1000 MHz | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1 GHz ≤  | −30dBm   | 0 dB     | 1 GHz ≤  | −30dBm   |
|          | f \<     |          |          | f \< 2.2 |          |
|          | 12.75    | /1MHz    |          | GHz      | /1MHz    |
|          | GHz      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1893.5   | −41dBm   | 0 dB     | 2.2 GHz  | −30dBm   |
|          | MHz \< f |          |          | ≤ f \< 4 |          |
|          | \<       | /300kHz  |          | GHz      | /1MHz    |
|          | 1915.7   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 925 MHz  | −67dBm   | 0 dB     | 4 GHz ≤  | −30dBm   |
|          | ≤ f ≤    |          |          | f \<     |          |
|          | 935 MHz  | /100kHz  |          | 12.75    | /1MHz    |
|          |          |          |          | GHz      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 935 MHz  | −79dBm   | 0 dB     | 1893.5   | −41dBm   |
|          | \< f ≤   |          |          | MHz \< f |          |
|          | 960 MHz  | /100kHz  |          | \<       | /300kHz  |
|          |          |          |          | 1915.7   |          |
|          |          |          |          | MHz      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1805 MHz | −71dBm   | 0 dB     | 925 MHz  | −67dBm   |
|          | ≤ f ≤    |          |          | ≤ f ≤    |          |
|          | 1880 MHz | /100kHz  |          | 935 MHz  | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          |          | 935 MHz  | −79dBm   |
|          |          |          |          | \< f ≤   |          |
|          |          |          |          | 960 MHz  | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          |          | 1805 MHz | −71dBm   |
|          |          |          |          | ≤ f ≤    |          |
|          |          |          |          | 1880 MHz | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.11D    |          |          | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| e        |          |          | Requ     |          |          |
| missions |          |          | irement+ |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          | TT       |          |          |
| CLTD     |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ac       |          |          | Add zero |          |          |
| tivation |          |          | to all   |          |          |
| state 2  |          |          | the      |          |          |
| and 3    |          |          | values   |          |          |
|          |          |          | of       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Requ     |          |          |
|          |          |          | irements |          |          |
|          |          |          | in table |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5.11D.1a |          |          |
|          |          |          | and      |          |          |
|          |          |          | 5        |          |          |
|          |          |          | .11D.1b. |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | F        | Minimum  |          | F        | Minimum  |
|          | requency | Req      |          | requency | Req      |
|          | Band     | uirement |          | Band     | uirement |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 9 kHz ≤  | −36dBm   | 0 dB     | 9 kHz ≤  | −36dBm   |
|          | f \< 150 |          |          | f \< 150 |          |
|          | kHz      | /1kHz    |          | kHz      | /1kHz    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 150 kHz  | −36dBm   | 0 dB     | 150 kHz  | −36dBm   |
|          | ≤ f \<   |          |          | ≤ f \<   |          |
|          | 30 MHz   | /10kHz   |          | 30 MHz   | /10kHz   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 30 MHz ≤ | −36dBm   | 0 dB     | 30 MHz ≤ | −36dBm   |
|          | f \<     |          |          | f \<     |          |
|          | 1000 MHz | /100kHz  |          | 1000 MHz | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1 GHz ≤  | −30dBm   | 0 dB     | 1 GHz ≤  | −30dBm   |
|          | f \<     |          |          | f \< 2.2 |          |
|          | 12.75    | /1MHz    |          | GHz      | /1MHz    |
|          | GHz      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1893.5   | −41dBm   | 0 dB     | 2.2 GHz  | −30dBm   |
|          | MHz \< f |          |          | ≤ f \< 4 |          |
|          | \<       | /300kHz  |          | GHz      | /1MHz    |
|          | 1915.7   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 925 MHz  | −67dBm   | 0 dB     | 4 GHz ≤  | −30dBm   |
|          | ≤ f ≤    |          |          | f \<     |          |
|          | 935 MHz  | /100kHz  |          | 12.75    | /1MHz    |
|          |          |          |          | GHz      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 935 MHz  | −79dBm   | 0 dB     | 1893.5   | −41dBm   |
|          | \< f ≤   |          |          | MHz \< f |          |
|          | 960 MHz  | /100kHz  |          | \<       | /300kHz  |
|          |          |          |          | 1915.7   |          |
|          |          |          |          | MHz      |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1805 MHz | −71dBm   | 0 dB     | 925 MHz  | −67dBm   |
|          | ≤ f ≤    |          |          | ≤ f ≤    |          |
|          | 1880 MHz | /100kHz  |          | 935 MHz  | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          |          | 935 MHz  | −79dBm   |
|          |          |          |          | \< f ≤   |          |
|          |          |          |          | 960 MHz  | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          |          | 1805 MHz | −71dBm   |
|          |          |          |          | ≤ f ≤    |          |
|          |          |          |          | 1880 MHz | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.12A    | Intermo  | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Transmit | dulation |          | CW       |          |          |
| Intermo  | Product  |          | in       |          |          |
| dulation |          |          | terferer |          |          |
| for      | 10MHz    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| DC‑HSUPA | -31 dBc  |          | Requi    |          |          |
|          |          |          | rement-- |          |          |
|          | 20MHz    |          | TT/2     |          |          |
|          | -41 dBc  |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Intermod |          |          |
|          | CW       |          | Products |          |          |
|          | In       |          | limits   |          |          |
|          | terferer |          | remain   |          |          |
|          | level =  |          | un       |          |          |
|          | -40 dBc  |          | changed. |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | CW       |          |          |
|          |          |          | in       |          |          |
|          |          |          | terferer |          |          |
|          |          |          | level =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -40 dBc  |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.12B    |  ± 2.2   |          |          |          |          |
| Transmit | dB       |          |          |          |          |
| intermo  |          |          |          |          |          |
| dulation |          |          |          |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          |          |          |          |
| OLTD     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.1   | The      | 0%       | Formula: |          |          |
| Transmit | measured |          | EVM      |          |          |
| mod      | EVM      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| ulation: | shall    |          | Req      |          |          |
| EVM      | not      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | exceed   |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | 17.5%    |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | EVM      |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 17.5 %   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.1A  | The      | 0%       | Formula: |          |          |
| Transmit | measured |          | EVM      |          |          |
| mod      | EVM      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| ulation: | shall    |          | Req      |          |          |
| EVM with | not      |          | uirement |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | exceed   |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | 17.5%    |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | EVM      |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 17.5 %   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.1AA | The      | 0%       | Formula: |          |          |
| Transmit | measured |          | EVM      |          |          |
| mod      | EVM      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| ulation: | shall    |          | Req      |          |          |
| EVM with | not      |          | uirement |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | exceed   |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | 17.5%    |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | EVM      |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 17.5 %   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Phase    | \[6\]    | Formula: |          |          |
|          | discon   | degree   | Phase    |          |          |
|          | tinuity: |          | disco    |          |          |
|          |          |          | ntinuity |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.1AB | The      | 0%       | Formula: |          |          |
| Transmit | measured |          | EVM      |          |          |
| mod      | EVM      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| ulation: | shall    |          | Req      |          |          |
| EVM and  | not      |          | uirement |          |          |
| phase    | exceed   |          | + TT     |          |          |
| disco    | 17.5%    |          |          |          |          |
| ntinuity |          |          | EVM      |          |          |
| with     |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH |          |          | 17.5 %   |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          |          |          |          |
| OLTD     |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Phase    | \[6\]    | Formula: |          |          |
|          | discon   | degree   | Phase    |          |          |
|          | tinuity: |          | disco    |          |          |
|          |          |          | ntinuity |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.1AC | The      | 0%       | Formula: |          |          |
| Transmit | measured |          | EVM      |          |          |
| mod      | EVM      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| ulation: | shall    |          | Req      |          |          |
| EVM and  | not      |          | uirement |          |          |
| phase    | exceed   |          | + TT     |          |          |
| disco    | 17.5%    |          |          |          |          |
| ntinuity |          |          | EVM      |          |          |
| with     |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH |          |          | 17.5 %   |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          |          |          |          |
| CLTD     |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ac       |          |          |          |          |          |
| tivation |          |          |          |          |          |
| state 1  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Phase    | \[6\]    | Formula: |          |          |
|          | discon   | degree   | Phase    |          |          |
|          | tinuity: |          | disco    |          |          |
|          |          |          | ntinuity |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.1AD | The      | 0%       | Formula: |          |          |
| Transmit | measured |          | EVM      |          |          |
| mod      | EVM      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| ulation: | shall    |          | Req      |          |          |
| EVM and  | not      |          | uirement |          |          |
| phase    | exceed   |          | + TT     |          |          |
| disco    | 17.5%    |          |          |          |          |
| ntinuity |          |          | EVM      |          |          |
| with     |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH |          |          | 17.5 %   |          |          |
| for UL   |          |          |          |          |          |
| CLTD     |          |          |          |          |          |
| Ac       |          |          |          |          |          |
| tivation |          |          |          |          |          |
| state 2  |          |          |          |          |          |
| and 3    |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Phase    | \[6\]    | Formula: |          |          |
|          | discon   | degree   | Phase    |          |          |
|          | tinuity: |          | disco    |          |          |
|          |          |          | ntinuity |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5        | The      | ±0.5 dB  | Formula: |          |          |
| .13.1AAA | Relative |          | Relative |          |          |
| EVM and  | Carrier  | (for IQ  | Carrier  |          |          |
| IQ       | Leakage  | origin   | Leakage  |          |          |
| origin   | Power    | offset)  | Power +  |          |          |
| offset   | shall    |          | TT       |          |          |
| for      | not      |          |          |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | exceed   |          | Relative |          |          |
| with     | -17 dB   |          | Carrier  |          |          |
| E-DCH    |          |          | Leakage  |          |          |
| with 16  |          |          | Power    |          |          |
| QAM      |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -16.5  |          |          |
|          |          |          | dB       |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.2   | The      | 1.0 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Transmit | measured |          | Peak     |          |          |
| mod      | Peak     |          | code     |          |          |
| ulation: | code     |          | domain   |          |          |
| peak     | domain   |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| code     | error    |          | Req      |          |          |
| domain   | shall    |          | uirement |          |          |
| error    | not      |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | exceed   |          |          |          |          |
|          | ‑15 dB   |          | Peak     |          |          |
|          |          |          | code     |          |          |
|          |          |          | domain   |          |          |
|          |          |          | error =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | -14 dB   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.2A  | The      | 0.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Relative | measured |          | UE RCDE  |          |          |
| Code     | RCDE     |          | req      |          |          |
| Domain   | shall    |          | uirement |          |          |
| Error    | not      |          | +TT      |          |          |
|          | exceed   |          |          |          |          |
|          | table    |          |          |          |          |
|          | 5        |          |          |          |          |
|          | .13.2A.1 |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.2B  | The      | 0.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Relative | measured |          | UE RCDE  |          |          |
| Code     | RCDE     |          | req      |          |          |
| Domain   | shall    |          | uirement |          |          |
| Error    | not      |          | + TT     |          |          |
| with     | exceed   |          |          |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | table    |          |          |          |          |
| and      | 5        |          |          |          |          |
| E-DCH    | .13.2B.1 |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.2B  | The      | 0.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Relative | measured |          | UE RCDE  |          |          |
| Code     | RCDE     |          | req      |          |          |
| Domain   | shall    |          | uirement |          |          |
| Error    | not      |          | + TT     |          |          |
| with     | exceed   |          |          |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | table    |          |          |          |          |
| and      | 5.       |          |          |          |          |
| E-DCH    | 13.2BA.1 |          |          |          |          |
| for      |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.2C  | The      | 0.5 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Relative | measured |          | UE RCDE  |          |          |
| Code     | RCDE     |          | req      |          |          |
| Domain   | shall    |          | uirement |          |          |
| Error    | not      |          | + TT     |          |          |
| for      | exceed   |          |          |          |          |
| HS-DPCCH | tables   |          |          |          |          |
| and      | 5.13.    |          |          |          |          |
| E-DCH    | 2C.1.and |          |          |          |          |
| with     | 5        |          |          |          |          |
| 16QAM    | .13.2C.2 |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.3   | EVM: The | 0%       | Formula: |          |          |
| UE phase | measured |          | EVM      |          |          |
| disco    | EVM      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| ntinuity | shall    |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | not      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | exceed   |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | 17.5%    |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | EVM      |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 17.5 %   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | F        | 10 Hz    | Formula: |          |          |
|          | requency |          | m        |          |          |
|          | error:   |          | odulated |          |          |
|          |          |          | carrier  |          |          |
|          | The UE   |          | f        |          |          |
|          | m        |          | requency |          |          |
|          | odulated |          | error +  |          |          |
|          | carrier  |          | TT       |          |          |
|          | f        |          |          |          |          |
|          | requency |          | m        |          |          |
|          | shall be |          | odulated |          |          |
|          | accurate |          | carrier  |          |          |
|          | to       |          | f        |          |          |
|          | within   |          | requency |          |          |
|          | +/-0.1   |          | error =  |          |          |
|          | ppm      |          | +/-(0.1  |          |          |
|          | compared |          | ppm + 10 |          |          |
|          | to the   |          | Hz).     |          |          |
|          | carrier  |          |          |          |          |
|          | f        |          |          |          |          |
|          | requency |          |          |          |          |
|          | received |          |          |          |          |
|          | from the |          |          |          |          |
|          | Node B.  |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | Phase    | 6 degree | Formula: |          |          |
|          | discon   |          | Phase    |          |          |
|          | tinuity: |          | disco    |          |          |
|          |          |          | ntinuity |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.4   | The      | 0%       | Formula: |          |          |
| PRACH    | measured |          | EVM      |          |          |
| preamble | EVM      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| quality  | shall    |          | Req      |          |          |
| (EVM)    | not      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | exceed   |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | 17.5%.   |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | EVM      |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit =  |          |          |
|          |          |          | 17.5 %   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.4   | The UE   | 10 Hz    | Formula: |          |          |
| PRACH    | m        |          | m        |          |          |
| preamble | odulated |          | odulated |          |          |
| quality  | carrier  |          | carrier  |          |          |
| (F       | f        |          | f        |          |          |
| requency | requency |          | requency |          |          |
| error)   | shall be |          | error    |          |          |
|          | accurate |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | to       |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | within   |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | +/-0.1   |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | ppm      |          |          |          |          |
|          | compared |          | m        |          |          |
|          | to the   |          | odulated |          |          |
|          | carrier  |          | carrier  |          |          |
|          | f        |          | f        |          |          |
|          | requency |          | requency |          |          |
|          | received |          | error =  |          |          |
|          | from the |          | +/- (0.1 |          |          |
|          | Node B.  |          | ppm + 10 |          |          |
|          |          |          | Hz).     |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 5.13.5   | The      | 0.8 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| In-band  | measured |          | in-band  |          |          |
| emission | in-band  |          | emission |          |          |
| for      | emission |          | minimum  |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | shall    |          | req      |          |          |
|          | not      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | exceed   |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | table    |          |          |          |          |
|          | 5.13.5.1 |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

F.4.2 Receiver
--------------

Table F.4.2: Derivation of Test Requirements (Receiver tests)

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Test     | Minimum  | Test     | Test     |          |          |
|          | Req      | To       | Req      |          |          |
|          | uirement | lerance\ | uirement |          |          |
|          | in TS    | (TT)     | in TS    |          |          |
|          | 25.101   |          | 34.121   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.2      | Îor =    | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| R        | -106.7   |          | Îor      |          |          |
| eference | dBm /    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| sen      | 3.84 MHz |          | Req      |          |          |
| sitivity |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| level    | DPCH\_Ec |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | = −117   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm /    |          | DPCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          | 3.84 MHz |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | BER      |          | BER      |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | 0.001    |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Îor =    |          |          |
|          |          |          | -106 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          | / 3.84   |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | DPCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -116.3 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.2A     | Îor =    | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| R        | -102.7   |          |          |          |          |
| eference | dBm /    |          | Îor:     |          |          |
| sen      | 3.84 MHz |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| sitivity |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| level    | HS-P     |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      | DSCH\_Ec |          | + TT     |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | = −113   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm /    |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          | 3.84 MHz |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | +TT      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Îor =    |          |          |
|          |          |          | -102 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          | / 3.84   |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          |          |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -112.3 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.2B     | Îor =    | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| R        | -102.7   |          |          |          |          |
| eference | dBm /    |          | Îor:     |          |          |
| sen      | 3.84 MHz |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| sitivity |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| level    | HS-P     |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      | DSCH\_Ec |          | + TT     |          |          |
| DB-      | = −113   |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | dBm /    |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          | 3.84 MHz |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | +TT      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Îor =    |          |          |
|          |          |          | -102 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          | / 3.84   |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          |          |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -112.3 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.2C     | Îor =    | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| R        | -102.7   |          |          |          |          |
| eference | dBm /    |          | Îor:     |          |          |
| Sen      | 3.84 MHz |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| sitivity |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    | HS-P     |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      | DSCH\_Ec |          | + TT     |          |          |
| Single   | = −113   |          |          |          |          |
| band     | dBm /    |          | HS-P     |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | 3.84 MHz |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | +TT      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Îor =    |          |          |
|          |          |          | -102 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          | / 3.84   |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          |          |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -112.3 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.2D     | Îor =    | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| R        | -102.7   |          |          |          |          |
| eference | dBm /    |          | Îor:     |          |          |
| Sen      | 3.84 MHz |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| sitivity |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    | HS-P     |          | uirement |          |          |
| for Dual | DSCH\_Ec |          | + TT     |          |          |
| band     | = −113   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | dBm /    |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          | 3.84 MHz |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | +TT      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Îor =    |          |          |
|          |          |          | -102 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          | / 3.84   |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          |          |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -112.3 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.2DA    | Îor =    | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| R        | -102.7   |          |          |          |          |
| eference | dBm /    |          | Îor:     |          |          |
| Sen      | 3.84 MHz |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| sitivity |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    | HS-P     |          | uirement |          |          |
| for Dual | DSCH\_Ec |          | + TT     |          |          |
| band     | = −113   |          |          |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | dBm /    |          | HS-P     |          |          |
| (3       | 3.84 MHz |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
| carrier) |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | +TT      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Îor =    |          |          |
|          |          |          | -102 dBm |          |          |
|          |          |          | / 3.84   |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          |          |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -112.3 |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm /    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3      | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Ior      |          |          |
| input    |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| level    | -19 dBc  |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | DPCH     |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | \_Ec/Ior |          | -TT      |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
|          |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3A     | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Input    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      |          |          | -TT      |          |          |
| HS-PDSCH |          |          |          |          |          |
| R        |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
| eception |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
| (16QAM)  |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3B     | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Input    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      |          |          | -TT      |          |          |
| HS-PDSCH |          |          |          |          |          |
| R        |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
| eception |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
| (64QAM)  |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3C     | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Input    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      |          |          | -TT      |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          |          |          |          |          |
| R        |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
| eception |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
| (16QAM)  |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3D     | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Input    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      |          |          | -TT      |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          |          |          |          |          |
| R        |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
| eception |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
| (64QAM)  |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3E     | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Input    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      |          |          | -TT      |          |          |
| DB-      |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
| R        |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
| eception |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
| (16QAM)  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3F     | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Input    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      |          |          | -TT      |          |          |
| DB-      |          |          |          |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
| R        |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
| eception |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
| (64QAM)  |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3G     | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Input    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      |          |          | -TT      |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          |          |          |          |
| R        |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
| eception |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
| (16QAM)  |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3GA    | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Input    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      |          |          | -TT      |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          |          |          |          |
| R        |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
| eception |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
| (16QAM)  |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
| (3       |          |          |          |          |          |
| carrier) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3H     | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Input    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      |          |          | -TT      |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          |          |          |          |
| R        |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
| eception |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
| (64QAM)  |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.3HA    | -25 dBm  | 0.7 dB   | Formula: |          |          |
| Maximum  | Ior      |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| Input    |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| Level    |          |          | uirement |          |          |
| for      |          |          | -TT      |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          |          |          |          |
| R        |          |          | Ior =    |          |          |
| eception |          |          | -25.7    |          |          |
| (64QAM)  |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
| (3       |          |          |          |          |          |
| carrier) |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.4      | Îor =    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent | -92.7    |          | Îor      |          |          |
| Channel  | dBm /    |          | u        |          |          |
| Sel      | 3.84 MHz |          | nchanged |          |          |
| ectivity |          |          |          |          |          |
| (Rel-99  | DPCH\_Ec |          | DPCH\_Ec |          |          |
| and      | = −103   |          | u        |          |          |
| Rel-4)   | dBm /    |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | 3.84 MHz |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ioac     |          |          |
|          | Ioac     |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | (mo      |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | dulated) |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | = -52    |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | BER      |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | BER      |          | u        |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | 0.001    |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ioac =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -52      |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |
|          |          |          | MHz      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.4A     | Case 1:  | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent |          |          | Îor      |          |          |
| Channel  | Îor =    |          | u        |          |          |
| Sel      | \<RE     |          | nchanged |          |          |
| ectivity | FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |
| (Rel-5   | + 14 dB  |          | DPCH\_Ec |          |          |
| and      | / 3.84   |          | u        |          |          |
| later    | MHz      |          | nchanged |          |          |
| r        |          |          |          |          |          |
| eleases) | DPCH\_Ec |          | Ioac     |          |          |
|          | =        |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | \<R      |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | EFSENS\> |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | + 14 dB  |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | BER      |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | Ioac     |          | u        |          |          |
|          | (mo      |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | dulated) |          |          |          |          |
|          | = -52    |          | Case1:   |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | Ioac =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -52      |          |          |
|          | BER      |          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | MHz      |          |          |
|          | 0.001    |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Case2:   |          |          |
|          | Case 2:  |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Ioac =   |          |          |
|          | Îor =    |          | -25      |          |          |
|          | \<RE     |          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |
|          | FÎ~or~\> |          | MHz      |          |          |
|          | + 41 dB  |          |          |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | DPCH\_Ec |          |          |          |          |
|          | =        |          |          |          |          |
|          | \<R      |          |          |          |          |
|          | EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |
|          | + 41 dB  |          |          |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | Ioac     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (mo      |          |          |          |          |
|          | dulated) |          |          |          |          |
|          | = -25    |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | BER      |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 0.001    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.4B     | Case 1:  | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Adjacent |          |          | Îor      |          |          |
| channel  | Îor =    |          | u        |          |          |
| sel      | \<RE     |          | nchanged |          |          |
| ectivity | FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |
| (ACS)    | + 14 dB  |          | DPCH\_Ec |          |          |
| for      | / 3.84   |          | u        |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | MHz      |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | HS-P     |          | Ioac     |          |          |
|          | DSCH\_Ec |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | =        |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | \<R      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | EFSENS\> |          | -- TT    |          |          |
|          | + 14 dB  |          |          |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          | Ioac     |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | (mo      |          |          |          |          |
|          | dulated) |          | Case1:   |          |          |
|          | = -52    |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          | Ioac =   |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | -52      |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          | MHz      |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | Case2:   |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | Case 2:  |          | Ioac =   |          |          |
|          |          |          | -25      |          |          |
|          | Îor =    |          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |
|          | \<RE     |          | MHz      |          |          |
|          | FÎ~or~\> |          |          |          |          |
|          | + 41 dB  |          |          |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | HS-P     |          |          |          |          |
|          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |          |          |
|          | =        |          |          |          |          |
|          | \<R      |          |          |          |          |
|          | EFSENS\> |          |          |          |          |
|          | + 41 dB  |          |          |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | Ioac     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (mo      |          |          |          |          |
|          | dulated) |          |          |          |          |
|          | = -25    |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.5      | See      | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Blocking | Table    |          |          |          |          |
| Charact  | 6.5.1,   |          | I        |          |          |
| eristics | 6.5.2    |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          | and      |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          | 6.5.3.   |          | (mo      |          |          |
|          | in       |          | dulated) |          |          |
|          | TS34.121 |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | BER      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          | 0.001    |          | (dBm/    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84MHz) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          |          |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BER      |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.5A     | See      | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Blocking | Table    |          |          |          |          |
| charact  | 6.5A.1,  |          | I        |          |          |
| eristics | 6.5A.2   |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for      | and      |          | locking~ |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | 6.5A.3   |          | (mo      |          |          |
|          | in       |          | dulated) |          |          |
|          | TS34.121 |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | (dBm/    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84MHz) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          |          |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.5B     | See      | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Blocking | Table    |          |          |          |          |
| charact  | 6.5B.1,  |          | I        |          |          |
| eristics | 6.5B.2   |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for      | and      |          | locking~ |          |          |
| DB-      | 6.5B.3   |          | (mo      |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | in       |          | dulated) |          |          |
|          | TS34.121 |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | (dBm/    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84MHz) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          |          |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.5C     | See      | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Blocking | Table    |          |          |          |          |
| charact  | 6.5C.1   |          | I        |          |          |
| eristics | and      |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for      | 6.5C.3   |          | locking~ |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | in       |          | (mo      |          |          |
|          | TS34.121 |          | dulated) |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm/    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84MHz) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          |          |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.5D     | See      | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Blocking | Table    |          |          |          |          |
| Charact  | 6.5D.1,  |          | I        |          |          |
| eristics | 6.5D.2   |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for      | and      |          | locking~ |          |          |
| single   | 6.5D.3   |          | (mo      |          |          |
| Uplink   | in       |          | dulated) |          |          |
| Single   | TS34.121 |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| band     |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | BLER     |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | (dBm/    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84MHz) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          |          |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.5E     | See      | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Blocking | Table    |          |          |          |          |
| Charact  | 6.5E.1   |          | I        |          |          |
| eristics | and      |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for dual | 6.5E.3   |          | locking~ |          |          |
| Uplink   | in       |          | (mo      |          |          |
| Single   | TS34.121 |          | dulated) |          |          |
| band     |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | BLER     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm/    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84MHz) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          |          |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.5F     | See      | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Blocking | Table    |          |          |          |          |
| Charact  | 6.5F.1,  |          | I        |          |          |
| eristics | 6.5F.2   |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for      | and      |          | locking~ |          |          |
| single   | 6.5F.3   |          | (mo      |          |          |
| Uplink   | in       |          | dulated) |          |          |
| Dual     | TS34.121 |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| band     |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | BLER     |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | (dBm/    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84MHz) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          |          |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.5FA    | See      | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Blocking | Table    |          |          |          |          |
| Charact  | 6.5F.1,  |          | I        |          |          |
| eristics | 6.5F.2   |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for      | and      |          | locking~ |          |          |
| single   | 6.5F.3   |          | (mo      |          |          |
| Uplink   | in       |          | dulated) |          |          |
| Dual     | TS34.121 |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| band     |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | BLER     |          | uirement |          |          |
| (3       | limit =  |          | - TT     |          |          |
| carrier) | 0.1      |          | (dBm/    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84MHz) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          |          |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.5G     | See      | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Blocking | Table    |          |          |          |          |
| Charact  | 6.5G.1   |          | I        |          |          |
| eristics | and      |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for dual | 6.5G.3   |          | locking~ |          |          |
| Uplink   | in       |          | (mo      |          |          |
| Dual     | TS34.121 |          | dulated) |          |          |
| band     |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | BLER     |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm/    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84MHz) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          |          |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.5GA    | See      | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Blocking | Table    |          |          |          |          |
| Charact  | 6.5G.1   |          | I        |          |          |
| eristics | and      |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for dual | 6.5G.3   |          | locking~ |          |          |
| Uplink   | in       |          | (mo      |          |          |
| Dual     | TS34.121 |          | dulated) |          |          |
| band     |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | BLER     |          | Req      |          |          |
| (3       | limit =  |          | uirement |          |          |
| carrier) | 0.1      |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm/    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 3.84MHz) |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          |          |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Req      |          |          |
|          |          |          | uirement |          |          |
|          |          |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.6      | Ibloc    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious | king(CW) |          | I        |          |          |
| Response | --44 dBm |          | ~b       |          |          |
|          |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
|          | Fuw:\    |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          | Spurious |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | response |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | fre      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | quencies |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          | BER      |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | Fuw      |          |          |
|          | 0.001    |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BER      |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I~block  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ing~(CW) |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -44    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.6A     | Ibloc    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious | king(CW) |          | I        |          |          |
| Response | --44 dBm |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for      |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | Fuw:\    |          | (CW)     |          |          |
|          | Spurious |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | response |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | fre      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | quencies |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | Fuw      |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I~block  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ing~(CW) |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -44    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.6B     | Ibloc    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious | king(CW) |          | I        |          |          |
| Response | --44 dBm |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for      |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
| DB-      | Fuw:\    |          | (CW)     |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | Spurious |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | response |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | fre      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | quencies |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | Fuw      |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I~block  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ing~(CW) |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -44    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.6C     | Ibloc    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious | king(CW) |          | I        |          |          |
| Response | --44 dBm |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for      |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
| single   | Fuw:\    |          | (CW)     |          |          |
| band     | Spurious |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | response |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | fre      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | quencies |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | Fuw      |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I~block  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ing~(CW) |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -44    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.6D     | Ibloc    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious | king(CW) |          | I        |          |          |
| Response | --44 dBm |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for dual |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
| band     | Fuw:\    |          | (CW)     |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | Spurious |          | Minimum  |          |          |
|          | response |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | fre      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | quencies |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | Fuw      |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I~block  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ing~(CW) |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -44    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.6DA    | Ibloc    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious | king(CW) |          | I        |          |          |
| Response | --44 dBm |          | ~b       |          |          |
| for dual |          |          | locking~ |          |          |
| band     | Fuw:\    |          | (CW)     |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA | Spurious |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| (3       | response |          | Req      |          |          |
| carrier) | fre      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | quencies |          | - TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          | (dBm)    |          |          |
|          | BLER     |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          | Fuw      |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | I~block  |          |          |
|          |          |          | ing~(CW) |          |          |
|          |          |          | = -44    |          |          |
|          |          |          | dBm      |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.7      | Iouw1    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Intermo  | (CW) -46 |          |          |          |          |
| dulation | dBm      |          | Ior      |          |          |
| Charact  |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| eristics | Iouw2    |          | Req      |          |          |
|          | (mo      |          | uirement |          |          |
|          | dulated) |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | --46 dBm |          |          |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | DPCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | Fuw1     |          | Iouw1    |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          | level    |          |          |
|          | 10 MHz   |          | u        |          |          |
|          |          |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | Fuw2     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          | Iouw2    |          |          |
|          | 20 MHz   |          | level    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          | Ior =    |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | -103.7   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          | BER      |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | limit    |          |          |
|          |          |          | un       |          |          |
|          | DPCH\_Ec |          | changed. |          |          |
|          | = -114   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | BER      |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 0.001    |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.7A     | Iouw1    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Intermo  | (CW) -46 |          |          |          |          |
| dulation | dBm      |          | Ior      |          |          |
| Charact  |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| eristics | Iouw2    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for      | (mo      |          | uirement |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | dulated) |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | --46 dBm |          |          |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | Fuw1     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          | Iouw1    |          |          |
|          | 10 MHz   |          | level    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          | Fuw2     |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20 MHz   |          | Iouw2    |          |          |
|          |          |          | level    |          |          |
|          | Ior =    |          | u        |          |          |
|          | -99.7    |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | HS-P     |          | un       |          |          |
|          | DSCH\_Ec |          | changed. |          |          |
|          | = -110   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | BER      |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.7B     | Iouw1    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Intermo  | (CW) -46 |          |          |          |          |
| dulation | dBm      |          | Ior      |          |          |
| Charact  |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| eristics | Iouw2    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for      | (mo      |          | uirement |          |          |
| DB-      | dulated) |          | + TT     |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA | --46 dBm |          |          |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | Fuw1     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          | Iouw1    |          |          |
|          | 10 MHz   |          | level    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          | Fuw2     |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20 MHz   |          | Iouw2    |          |          |
|          |          |          | level    |          |          |
|          | Ior =    |          | u        |          |          |
|          | -99.7    |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | HS-P     |          | un       |          |          |
|          | DSCH\_Ec |          | changed. |          |          |
|          | = -110   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | BER      |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.7C     | Iouw1    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Intermo  | (CW) -46 |          |          |          |          |
| dulation | dBm      |          | Ior      |          |          |
| Charact  |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| eristics | Iouw2    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for      | (mo      |          | uirement |          |          |
| DC-HSUPA | dulated) |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | --46 dBm |          |          |          |          |
|          | / 3.84   |          | HS-P     |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
|          |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | Fuw1     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          | Iouw1    |          |          |
|          | 10 MHz   |          | level    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          | Fuw2     |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20 MHz   |          | Iouw2    |          |          |
|          |          |          | level    |          |          |
|          | Ior =    |          | u        |          |          |
|          | -99.7    |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | HS-P     |          | un       |          |          |
|          | DSCH\_Ec |          | changed. |          |          |
|          | = -110   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | BER      |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.7D     | Iouw1    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Intermo  | (CW) -46 |          |          |          |          |
| dulation | dBm      |          | Ior      |          |          |
| Charact  |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| eristics | Iouw2    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for      | (mo      |          | uirement |          |          |
| single   | dulated) |          | + TT     |          |          |
| uplink   | --46 dBm |          |          |          |          |
| single   | / 3.84   |          | HS-P     |          |          |
| band     | MHz      |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | Fuw1     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          | Iouw1    |          |          |
|          | 10 MHz   |          | level    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          | Fuw2     |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20 MHz   |          | Iouw2    |          |          |
|          |          |          | level    |          |          |
|          | Ior =    |          | u        |          |          |
|          | -99.7    |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | HS-P     |          | un       |          |          |
|          | DSCH\_Ec |          | changed. |          |          |
|          | = -110   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | BER      |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.7E     | Iouw1    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Intermo  | (CW) -46 |          |          |          |          |
| dulation | dBm      |          | Ior      |          |          |
| Charact  |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| eristics | Iouw2    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for      | (mo      |          | uirement |          |          |
| single   | dulated) |          | + TT     |          |          |
| uplink   | --46 dBm |          |          |          |          |
| dual     | / 3.84   |          | HS-P     |          |          |
| band     | MHz      |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
|          | Fuw1     |          |          |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          | Iouw1    |          |          |
|          | 10 MHz   |          | level    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          | Fuw2     |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20 MHz   |          | Iouw2    |          |          |
|          |          |          | level    |          |          |
|          | Ior =    |          | u        |          |          |
|          | -99.7    |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | HS-P     |          | un       |          |          |
|          | DSCH\_Ec |          | changed. |          |          |
|          | = -110   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | BER      |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.7EA    | Iouw1    | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Intermo  | (CW) -46 |          |          |          |          |
| dulation | dBm      |          | Ior      |          |          |
| Charact  |          |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| eristics | Iouw2    |          | Req      |          |          |
| for      | (mo      |          | uirement |          |          |
| single   | dulated) |          | + TT     |          |          |
| uplink   | --46 dBm |          |          |          |          |
| dual     | / 3.84   |          | HS-P     |          |          |
| band     | MHz      |          | DSCH\_Ec |          |          |
| 4C-HSDPA |          |          | + TT     |          |          |
| (3       | Fuw1     |          |          |          |          |
| carrier) | (offset) |          | Iouw1    |          |          |
|          | 10 MHz   |          | level    |          |          |
|          |          |          | u        |          |          |
|          | Fuw2     |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | (offset) |          |          |          |          |
|          | 20 MHz   |          | Iouw2    |          |          |
|          |          |          | level    |          |          |
|          | Ior =    |          | u        |          |          |
|          | -99.7    |          | nchanged |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          | BLER     |          |          |
|          |          |          | limit    |          |          |
|          | HS-P     |          | un       |          |          |
|          | DSCH\_Ec |          | changed. |          |          |
|          | = -110   |          |          |          |          |
|          | dBm/3.84 |          |          |          |          |
|          | MHz      |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | BER      |          |          |          |          |
|          | limit =  |          |          |          |          |
|          | 0.1      |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.8      |          |          | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious |          |          | Maximum  |          |          |
| E        |          |          | level +  |          |          |
| missions |          |          | TT       |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          | Add zero |          |          |
|          |          |          | to all   |          |          |
|          |          |          | the      |          |          |
|          |          |          | values   |          |          |
|          |          |          | of       |          |          |
|          |          |          | Maximum  |          |          |
|          |          |          | Level in |          |          |
|          |          |          | table    |          |          |
|          |          |          | 6.8.1.   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | F        | Maximum  |          | F        | Maximum  |
|          | requency | level    |          | requency | level    |
|          | Band     |          |          | Band     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 9kHz ≤ f | -57dBm\  | 0 dB     | 9kHz ≤ f | -57dBm\  |
|          | \< 1GHz  | /100kHz  |          | \< 1GHz  | /100kHz  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1GHz ≤ f | -47dBm\  | 0 dB     | 1GHz ≤ f | -47dBm\  |
|          | ≤        | /1MHz    |          | ≤ 2.2GHz | /1MHz    |
|          | 12.75GHz |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          | 0 dB     | 2.2GHz   | -47dBm\  |
|          |          |          |          | \< f ≤   | /1MHz    |
|          |          |          |          | 4GHz     |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          | 0 dB     | 4GHz \<  | -47dBm\  |
|          |          |          |          | f ≤      | /1MHz    |
|          |          |          |          | 12.75GHz |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 1920MHz  | -60dBm\  | 0 dB     | 1920MHz  | -60dBm\  |
|          | ≤ f ≤    | /3.84MHz |          | ≤ f ≤    | /3.84MHz |
|          | 1980MHz  |          |          | 1980MHz  |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          | 2110MHz  | -60dBm\  | 0 dB     | 2110MHz  | -60dBm\  |
|          | ≤ f ≤    | /3.84MHz |          | ≤ f ≤    | /3.84MHz |
|          | 2170MHz  |          |          | 2170MHz  |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| 6.8A     | 30MHz ≤  | 0 dB     | Formula: |          |          |
| Spurious | f \<     |          |          |          |          |
| E        | 1GHz:    |          | Minimum  |          |          |
| missions |          |          | Req      |          |          |
| for      | -57dBm / |          | uirement |          |          |
| DB-      | 100kHz   |          | + TT     |          |          |
| DC-HSDPA |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | 1GHz ≤ f |          |          |          |          |
|          | ≤ 12.75  |          |          |          |          |
|          | GHz:     |          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |          |          |
|          | -47dBm / |          |          |          |          |
|          | 1MHz     |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

F.4.3 Performance requirements
------------------------------

Table F.4.3: Derivation of Test Requirements (Performance tests)

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Test           | Minimum        | Test           | Test           |
|                | Requirement in | Tolerance\     | Requirement in |
|                | TS 25.101      | (TT)           | TS 34.121      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.2            | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| static         | -5.5 to -16.6  | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| conditions     | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | $              |                | Requirement +  |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.3 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
|                | = - 1 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -0.7 dB      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -5.4 to -16.5  |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.2.2          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| in Static      | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| Propagation    | -15.5 to -19.3 | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| Condition/     | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| Demodulation   |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| of Dedicated   | $              |                | Requirement +  |
| Channel (DCH)  | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.3 dB for     | TT             |
| when           | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| (DL\_DCH       |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| \_FET\_Config) | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| is configured  | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| by higher      | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
| layers         | = - 1 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -0.7 dB      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -15.4 to -19.2 |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.3            | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| multi-path     | -2.2 to -15.0  | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| fading         |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
| Tests 1-4      | = -60 dBm      | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 9 dB to -3   |                | = Minimum      |
|                | dB             |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 9.6 to --2.4 |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -2.1 to -14.9  |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.3            | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| multi-path     | -3.2 to -7.7   | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| fading         | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | $              |                | Requirement +  |
| Tests 5-8      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
|                | = 6 dB to -3   |                | Requirement +  |
|                | dB             |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 6.6 to -2.4  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -3.1 to -7.6   |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.3            | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| multi-path     | -4.4 to -11.8  | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| fading         | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | $              |                | Requirement +  |
| Tests 9-12     | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
|                | = 6 dB to -3   |                | Requirement +  |
|                | dB             |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 6.6 to --2.4 |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-4.3 to       |
|                |                |                | --11.7 dB:     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.3            | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| multi-path     | -2.2 to -15.0  | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| fading         | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | $              |                | Requirement +  |
| Tests 13-16    | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
|                | = 9 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 9.6          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -2.1 to      |
|                |                |                | -14.9 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.3            | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| multi-path     | -1.4 to -8.8   | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| fading         | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | $              |                | Requirement +  |
| Tests 17-20    | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
|                | = 6 to -3 dB   |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}$= |
|                |                |                | 6.6 to --2.4   |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -1.3 to -8.7   |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.3.2          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| multi-path     | -13.4 to -16.6 | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| fading         |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
| when           | = -60 dBm      | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
| (DL\_DCH       |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| \_FET\_Config) | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| is configured  | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| by higher      | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| layers /Tests  | = 9 dB         |                | = Minimum      |
| 1-2            |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 9.6 to --2.4 |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -2.1 to -14.9  |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.3.2          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| multi-path     | -5.5 to -8.9   | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| fading         | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | $              |                | Requirement +  |
| when           | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
| (DL\_DCH       | = - 60 dBm     | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| \_FET\_Config) |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| is configured  | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| by higher      | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| layers /Tests  | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
| 3-4            | = -3 dB        |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -2.4 dB      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -5.4 to -8.8   |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.3.2          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| multi-path     | -10 to -12.5   | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| fading         | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | $              |                | Requirement +  |
| when           | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
| (DL\_DCH       | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| \_FET\_Config) |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| is configured  | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| by higher      | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| layers /Tests  | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
| 5-6            | = -3 dB        |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = --2.4 dB     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-9.9 to -12.4 |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.3.2          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| multi-path     | -13.4 to -16.6 | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| fading         | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | $              |                | Requirement +  |
| when           | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
| (DL\_DCH       | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| \_FET\_Config) |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| is configured  | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| by higher      | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| layers /Tests  | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
| 7-8            | = 9 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 9.6          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -13.3 to     |
|                |                |                | -16.5 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.3.2          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| multi-path     | -9.9 to -12.2  | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| fading         | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | $              |                | Requirement +  |
| when           | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
| (DL\_DCH       | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| \_FET\_Config) |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| is configured  | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| by higher      | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| layers /Tests  | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
| 9-10           | = -3 dB        |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}$= |
|                |                |                | --2.4 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -9.8 to -12.1: |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.4            | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| moving         | -10.9 to -14.5 | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| propagation    |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| conditions     | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = -1 dB        |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -0.4 dB      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -10.8 to       |
|                |                |                | --14.4 dB:     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.5            | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH        | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| birth-death    | -8.7 to -12.6  | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| propagation    | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| conditions     |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | $              |                | Requirement +  |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}}/I |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | _{\text{oc}}$= |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Minimum        |
|                | = -1 dB        |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -0.4 dB      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-18.6 to      |
|                |                |                | -12.5 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.5A           | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DCH in high | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| speed train    | -21.8 dB       | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| conditions     |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}}/I |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | _{\text{oc}}$= |
|                | = 5 dB         |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 5.6 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-21.7 dB:     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.6.1          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DPCH in     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| transmit       | -16.8 dB       | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| diversity      |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| propagation    | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| conditions     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | 0.8 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 9 dB         |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 9.8 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -16.7 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.6.2          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DCH in      | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| closed loop    | -18 to -18.3   | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| Transmit       | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| diversity mode |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | $              |                | Requirement +  |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.8 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
|                | = 9 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 9.8 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -17.9 to -18.2 |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.6.3,         | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| of DCH in site | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| selection      | -5.0 to -10.5  | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| diversity      | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| Transmission   |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| power control  | $              |                | Requirement +  |
| mode           | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.8 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
|                | = 0 to -3 dB   |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 0.8 to -2.2  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -4.9 to -10.4  |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.7.1          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| in inter-cell  | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| soft Handover  | -5.5 to --15.2 | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| (Release 5 and | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| earlier)       |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | $              |                | Requirement +  |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
|                |                | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                | _{\text{or}1}/ | and            | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     | = Minimum      |
|                | =              | _{\text{or}2}/ | Requirement +  |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ | TT             |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | = 6 to 0 dB    |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I       |
|                |                |                | }}_{\text{or}1 |
|                |                |                | }/I_{\text{oc} |
|                |                |                | }$=${\hat{I}}_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}2}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}$= |
|                |                |                | 6.6 to 0.6 dB  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-5.4 to       |
|                |                |                | --15.4 dB:     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.7.1A         | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| in inter-cell  | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| soft Handover  | -5.8 to -15.2  | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| (Release 6 and | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| later)         |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | $              |                | Requirement +  |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
|                |                | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                | _{\text{or}1}/ | and            | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     | = Minimum      |
|                | =              | _{\text{or}2}/ | Requirement +  |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ | TT             |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | = 6 to 0 dB    |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I       |
|                |                |                | }}_{\text{or}1 |
|                |                |                | }/I_{\text{oc} |
|                |                |                | }$=${\hat{I}}_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}2}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}$= |
|                |                |                | 6.6 to 0.6 dB  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -5.7 to      |
|                |                |                | -15.1 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.7.1B         | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| in inter-cell  | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| soft Handover  | -14.6 dB       | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| (Release 6 and |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| later) when    | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| (DL\_DCH       | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
| \_FET\_Config) | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
| is configured  |                | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| by higher      | ${\hat{I}}     | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
| layers         | _{\text{or}1}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | and            | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | =              | ${\hat{I}}     | = Minimum      |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | _{\text{or}2}/ | Requirement +  |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | TT             |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I       |
|                |                |                | }}_{\text{or}1 |
|                |                |                | }/I_{\text{oc} |
|                |                |                | }$=${\hat{I}}_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}2}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}$= |
|                |                |                | 0.6 dB         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -14.5 dB:    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.7.2          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Combining of   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| TPC commands   | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| Test 1         | -12 dB         | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | Ior1 and Ior2  | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | -60dBm         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | 0dB for Ior1   | TT             |
|                |                | and Ior2       |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -11,9 dB:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior1 = --60dBm |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior2 = --60dBm |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | The absolute   |
|                |                |                | levels of Ior1 |
|                |                |                | and Ior2 are   |
|                |                |                | not important  |
|                |                |                | to this test.  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.7.2          | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Combining of   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| TPC commands   | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| Test 2         | -12 dB         | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | _{\text{or}1}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | and            | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | =              | ${\hat{I}}     | = Minimum      |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | _{\text{or}2}/ | Requirement +  |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | TT             |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | =              |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 0.6 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-11,9 dB:     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.7.2A         | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Combining of   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| TPC commands   | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| when           | -12 dB         | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| (DL\_DCH       |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| \_FET\_Config) | Ior1 and Ior2  | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| is configured  | -60dBm         |                | Requirement +  |
| by higher      |                | 0dB for Ior1   | TT             |
| layers Test 1  |                | and Ior2       |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
| d              |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -11,9 dB:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior1 = --60dBm |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior2 = --60dBm |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | The absolute   |
|                |                |                | levels of Ior1 |
|                |                |                | and Ior2 are   |
|                |                |                | not important  |
|                |                |                | to this test.  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.7.2A         | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Combining of   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| TPC commands   | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| when           | -12 dB         | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| (DL\_DCH       |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| \_FET\_Config) | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| is configured  | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
| by higher      | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
| layers Test 2  |                | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | _{\text{or}1}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | and            | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | =              | ${\hat{I}}     | = Minimum      |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | _{\text{or}2}/ | Requirement +  |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | TT             |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | =              |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 0.6 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-11,9 dB:     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.7.3          | Test           | 0 dB for all   | Test           |
| Combining of   | parameters:    | test           | parameters:    |
| reliable TPC   |                | parameters     |                |
| commands from  | $\ \frac{\text |                | $\ \frac{\text |
| radio links of | {DPCH}_{}}{I_{ | 0 dB for all   | {DPCH}_{}}{I_{ |
| different      | \text{or}1}}$= | test           | \text{or}1}}$= |
| radio link     | set at the     | requirements   | Minimum        |
| sets           | level          |                | Requirement +  |
|                | corresponding  |                | TT             |
|                | to 5% TPC      |                |                |
|                | error rate.    |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |                |                | {DPCH}_{}}{I_{ |
|                | Test 1:        |                | \text{or}2}}$= |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                | $\             |                | Requirement +  |
|                |  \frac{\text{D |                | TT             |
|                | PCH}_{}}{I_{\t |                |                |
|                | ext{or}2}}$=$\ |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |  \frac{\text{D |                | {DPCH}_{}}{I_{ |
|                | PCH}_{}}{I_{\t |                | \text{or}3}}$= |
|                | ext{or}1}}$-10 |                | Minimum        |
|                | dB             |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | $\             |                |                |
|                |  \frac{\text{D |                | Test           |
|                | PCH}_{}}{I_{\t |                | requirements:  |
|                | ext{or}3}}$=$\ |                |                |
|                |  \frac{\text{D |                | Test 1:        |
|                | PCH}_{}}{I_{\t |                |                |
|                | ext{or}1}}$-10 |                | UE output      |
|                | dB             |                | power = -15    |
|                |                |                | dBm ± (5 dB +  |
|                | Test 2:        |                | TT)            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | $              |                | Test 2:        |
|                | \ \frac{\text{ |                |                |
|                | DPCH}_{}}{I_{\ |                | UE output      |
|                | text{or}2}}$=$ |                | power = -15    |
|                | \ \frac{\text{ |                | dBm ± (3 dB +  |
|                | DPCH}_{}}{I_{\ |                | TT)            |
|                | text{or}1}}$+6 |                |                |
|                | dB             |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Test           |                |                |
|                | requirements:  |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Test 1:        |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | UE output      |                |                |
|                | power = -15    |                |                |
|                | dBm ± 5 dB     |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Test 2:        |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | UE output      |                |                |
|                | power = -15    |                |                |
|                | dBm ± 3 dB     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.7.3A         | Test           | 0 dB for all   | Test           |
| Combining of   | parameters:    | test           | parameters:    |
| reliable TPC   |                | parameters     |                |
| commands from  | $\ \frac{\text |                | $\ \frac{\text |
| radio links of | {DPCH}_{}}{I_{ | 0 dB for all   | {DPCH}_{}}{I_{ |
| different      | \text{or}1}}$= | test           | \text{or}1}}$= |
| radio link     | set at the     | requirements   | Minimum        |
| sets when      | level          |                | Requirement +  |
| DL\_DC         | corresponding  |                | TT             |
| H\_FET\_Config | to 5% TPC      |                |                |
| \[10\] is      | error rate.    |                | $\ \frac{\text |
| configured by  |                |                | {DPCH}_{}}{I_{ |
| higher layers  | Test 1:        |                | \text{or}2}}$= |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                | $\             |                | Requirement +  |
|                |  \frac{\text{D |                | TT             |
|                | PCH}_{}}{I_{\t |                |                |
|                | ext{or}2}}$=$\ |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |  \frac{\text{D |                | {DPCH}_{}}{I_{ |
|                | PCH}_{}}{I_{\t |                | \text{or}3}}$= |
|                | ext{or}1}}$-10 |                | Minimum        |
|                | dB             |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | $\             |                |                |
|                |  \frac{\text{D |                | Test           |
|                | PCH}_{}}{I_{\t |                | requirements:  |
|                | ext{or}3}}$=$\ |                |                |
|                |  \frac{\text{D |                | Test 1:        |
|                | PCH}_{}}{I_{\t |                |                |
|                | ext{or}1}}$-10 |                | UE output      |
|                | dB             |                | power = -15    |
|                |                |                | dBm ± (5 dB +  |
|                | Test 2:        |                | TT)            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | $              |                | Test 2:        |
|                | \ \frac{\text{ |                |                |
|                | DPCH}_{}}{I_{\ |                | UE output      |
|                | text{or}2}}$=$ |                | power = -15    |
|                | \ \frac{\text{ |                | dBm ± (3 dB +  |
|                | DPCH}_{}}{I_{\ |                | TT)            |
|                | text{or}1}}$+6 |                |                |
|                | dB             |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Test           |                |                |
|                | requirements:  |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Test 1:        |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | UE output      |                |                |
|                | power = -15    |                |                |
|                | dBm ± 5 dB     |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Test 2:        |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | UE output      |                |                |
|                | power = -15    |                |                |
|                | dBm ± 3 dB     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.1 Power    | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| control in     | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| downlink       | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| constant BLER  | -9 to -16 dB   | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| target         |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| (Release 5 and | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| earlier)       | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 9 to -1 dB   | Alternative    | = Minimum      |
|                |                | $\frac         | Requirement +  |
|                |                | {\text{DPCH}_{ | TT             |
|                |                | }}{I_{\text{or |                |
|                |                | }}}$tolerances | $              |
|                |                | also apply for | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | test cases     | unchanged      |
|                |                | using an SS    |                |
|                |                | with delayed   | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | DL power       | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | control        | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | response time. | = 9.6 to -0.4  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -8.9 to --15.9 |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.1B Power   | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| control in the | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| downlink,      | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| constant BLER  | -9 to -16 dB   | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| target when    |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| DL\_DC         | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| H\_FET\_Config | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
| is configured  | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
| by higher      |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| layers         | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 9 to -1 dB   | Alternative    | = Minimum      |
|                |                | $\frac         | Requirement +  |
|                |                | {\text{DPCH}_{ | TT             |
|                |                | }}{I_{\text{or |                |
|                |                | }}}$tolerances | $              |
|                |                | also apply for | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | test cases     | unchanged      |
|                |                | using an SS    |                |
|                |                | with delayed   | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | DL power       | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | control        | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | response time. | = 9.6 to -0.4  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -8.9 to --15.9 |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.1A Power   | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| control in     | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| downlink       | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| constant BLER  | -9 to -16 dB   | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| target         |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| (Release 6 and | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| later)         | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 9 to -1 dB   |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 9.6 to -0.4  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -8.9 to --15.9 |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.2, Power   | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.6 dB         | Formulas:      |
| control in     | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| downlink       | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   |
| initial        | -8.1 to --18.9 | $\ \frac{\te   | during T1 and  |
| convergence    | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | T2:            |
| (Release 5 and |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |                |
| earlier)       | $              | power ratio    | Minimum        |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | values during  | Requirement    |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | T1 and T2.     | --TT ≤         |
|                |                |                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior ≤ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | Alternative    | Minimum        |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | $\fra          | Requirement +  |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | c{\text{DPCH}_ | TT             |
|                | = -1 dB        | {}}{I_{\text{o |                |
|                |                | r}}}$tolerance | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | of 0.8 dB      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | applies when   | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | using an SS    | = unchanged    |
|                |                | with delayed   |                |
|                |                | DL power       | $              |
|                |                | control        | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | response time. | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.2A Power   | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.6 dB         | Formulas:      |
| control in the | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| downlink,      | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   |
| initial        | -8.1 to --18.9 | $\ \frac{\te   | during T1 and  |
| convergence    | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | T2:            |
| when           |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |                |
| DL\_DC         | $              | power ratio    | Minimum        |
| H\_FET\_Config | I_{\text{oc}}$ | values during  | Requirement    |
| is configured  | = - 60 dBm     | T1 and T2.     | --TT ≤         |
| by higher      |                |                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior ≤ |
| layers         | ${\hat{I}      | Alternative    | Minimum        |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | $\fra          | Requirement +  |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | c{\text{DPCH}_ | TT             |
|                | = -1 dB        | {}}{I_{\text{o |                |
|                |                | r}}}$tolerance | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | of 0.8 dB      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | applies when   | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | using an SS    | = unchanged    |
|                |                | with delayed   |                |
|                |                | DL power       | $              |
|                |                | control        | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | response time. | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.3A, Power  | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| control in     | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| downlink: wind | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| up effects     | -13.3 dB       | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| (Release 6 and |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| later)         | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 5 dB         |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 5.6 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -13.2 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.3B Power   | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| control in the | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| downlink, wind | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| up effects     | -13.3 dB       | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| (Release 6 and |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| later) when    | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| DL\_DC         | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
| H\_FET\_Config | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
| is configured  |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| by higher      | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| layers         | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 5 dB         |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 5.6 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -13.2 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.3, Power   | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| control in     | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| downlink: wind | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| up effects     | -13.3 dB       | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 5 dB         | Alternative    | = Minimum      |
|                |                | $\frac         | Requirement +  |
|                |                | {\text{DPCH}_{ | TT             |
|                |                | }}{I_{\text{or |                |
|                |                | }}}$tolerances | $              |
|                |                | also apply for | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | test cases     | unchanged      |
|                |                | using an SS    |                |
|                |                | with delayed   | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | DL power       | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | control        | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | response time. | = 5.6 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{DPCH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -13.2 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.4, Power   | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| control in the | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| downlink,      | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| different      | -16 to --18 dB | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| transport      |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| formats        | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 9 dB         | Alternative    | = Minimum      |
|                |                | $\frac         | Requirement +  |
|                |                | {\text{DPCH}_{ | TT             |
|                |                | }}{I_{\text{or |                |
|                |                | }}}$tolerances | $              |
|                |                | also apply for | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | test cases     | unchanged      |
|                |                | using an SS    |                |
|                |                | with delayed   | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | DL power       | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | control        | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | response time. | = 9.6 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-15.9 to      |
|                |                |                | -17.9 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.4A Power   | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| control in the | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| downlink,      | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| different      | -16 to --18 dB | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| transport      |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| formats when   | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| DL\_DC         | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
| H\_FET\_Config | = - 60 dBm     | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
| is configured  |                | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| by higher      | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| layers         | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 9 dB         | Alternative    | = Minimum      |
|                |                | $\frac         | Requirement +  |
|                |                | {\text{DPCH}_{ | TT             |
|                |                | }}{I_{\text{or |                |
|                |                | }}}$tolerances | $              |
|                |                | also apply for | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | test cases     | unchanged      |
|                |                | using an SS    |                |
|                |                | with delayed   | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | DL power       | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | control        | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | response time. | = 9.6 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-15.9 to      |
|                |                |                | -17.9 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.8.5, Power   | $\fra          | 0.1 dB         |                |
| control in the | c{F - \text{DP |                |                |
| downlink for   | CH}_{}}{I_{\te | for            |                |
| F-DPCH         | xt{or}}}$-15.9 | $\frac{F - \te |                |
|                | to -12 dB      | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |
|                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |                |
|                | $              |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     |                |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 9 to -1 dB   |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.9.1 Downlink | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| compressed     | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| mode / single  | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| link           |                | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| performance    | Test 1 -14.6   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| (Release 5 and | dB             | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| earlier)       |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Test 3 -15.2   | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                | dB             | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | $              | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = - 60 dBm     |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | ${\hat{I}      |                | TT             |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | $              |
|                | = 9 dB         |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 9.6 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =              |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 1 -14.5   |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 3 -15.1   |
|                |                |                | dB:            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.9.1A         | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Downlink       | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| compressed     | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| mode / single  |                | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| link           | Test 1 -13.7   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| performance    | dB             | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
| (Release 6 and |                |                | Requirement +  |
| later)         | $              | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | = Minimum      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = 9 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = 9.6 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =              |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 1 -13.6   |
|                |                |                | dB             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.10 Blind     | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| transport      | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| format         | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| detection      | -17.7 to -18.4 | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| Tests 1, 2, 3  | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | $              |                | Requirement +  |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.3 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
|                | = -1 dB        |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -0.7 dB      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-17.6 to      |
|                |                |                | --18.3 dB:     |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.10 Blind     | $\ \frac{\te   | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| transport      | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |                |                |
| format         | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\ \frac{\te   |
| detection      | -13.0 to -13.8 | $\ \frac{\te   | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
| Tests 4, 5, 6  | dB             | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | $              |                | Requirement +  |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | TT             |
|                | = - 60 dBm     | ${\hat{I}      |                |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | = Minimum      |
|                | = -3 dB        |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = -2.4 dB      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\te   |
|                |                |                | xt{DPCH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-12.9 to      |
|                |                |                | -13.7 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.11           | Test 1:        | Test 1:        | Ioc,           |
| Demodulation   |                |                | S              |
| of paging      | Ioc=-60 dBm    | 0.4 dB for     | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |
| channel (PCH)  |                | Îor/Ioc        | and            |
|                | Îor/Ioc = -1   |                | PICH\_Ec/Ior   |
|                | dB             |                | are unchanged  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | S              |                | Since PICH     |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Power Offset   |
|                | = -14.8 dB     |                | has to be an   |
|                |                |                | integer value  |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | TT for         |
|                | -19 dB         |                | PICH\_Ec/Ior   |
|                |                |                | is zero. But   |
|                |                |                | TT of Îor/Ioc  |
|                |                |                | has been       |
|                |                |                | increased by   |
|                |                |                | 0.1 dB from    |
|                |                |                | its normal     |
|                |                |                | value (0.3 dB  |
|                |                |                | / 0.6 dB) due  |
|                |                |                | to test system |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | PICH\_Ec/Ior.  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formulas:      |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = Minimum      |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | Test 2:        | Test 2:        |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ioc=-60 dBm    | 0.7 dB for     |                |
|                |                | Îor/Ioc        |                |
|                | Îor/Ioc = -3   |                |                |
|                | dB             |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | S              |                |                |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -9.8 dB      |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.12 Detection | Ioc=-60 dBm    | 0.4 dB for     | Ioc and        |
| of acquisition |                | Îor/Ioc        | AICH\_Ec/Ior   |
| indicator (AI) | Îor/Ioc = -1   |                | are unchanged. |
|                | dB             |                |                |
|                |                |                | Since AICH     |
|                | AICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Power Offset   |
|                | -22.0 dB       |                | has to be an   |
|                |                |                | integer value  |
|                | S              |                | TT for         |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | AICH\_Ec/Ior   |
|                | = -12.0 dB     |                | is zero. But   |
|                |                |                | TT of Îor/Ioc  |
|                |                |                | has been       |
|                |                |                | increased by   |
|                |                |                | 0.1 dB from    |
|                |                |                | its normal     |
|                |                |                | value (0.3 dB) |
|                |                |                | due to test    |
|                |                |                | system         |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | AICH\_Ec/Ior.  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | No need to add |
|                |                |                | test tolerance |
|                |                |                | to             |
|                |                |                | S              |
|                |                |                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |
|                |                |                | since it is    |
|                |                |                | not critical   |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formula:       |
|                |                |                | Îor/Ioc =      |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.12A          | Ioc=-60 dBm    | 0.4 dB for     | Ioc,           |
| Detection of   |                | Îor/Ioc        | AICH\_Ec/Ior   |
| E-DCH          | Îor/Ioc = -1   |                | and            |
| Acquisition    | dB             |                | E-AICH\_Ec/Ior |
| Indicator      |                |                | are unchanged. |
| (E-AI)         | AICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -22.0 dB       |                | Since AICH     |
|                |                |                | Power Offset   |
|                | E-AICH\_Ec/Ior |                | has to be an   |
|                | = -22.0 dB     |                | integer value  |
|                |                |                | TT for         |
|                | S              |                | AICH\_Ec/Ior   |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | and            |
|                | = -12.0 dB     |                | E-AICH\_Ec/Ior |
|                |                |                | are zero. But  |
|                |                |                | TT of Îor/Ioc  |
|                |                |                | has been       |
|                |                |                | increased by   |
|                |                |                | 0.1 dB from    |
|                |                |                | its normal     |
|                |                |                | value (0.3 dB) |
|                |                |                | due to test    |
|                |                |                | system         |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | AICH\_Ec/Ior   |
|                |                |                | and            |
|                |                |                | E              |
|                |                |                | -AICH\_Ec/Ior. |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | No need to add |
|                |                |                | test tolerance |
|                |                |                | to             |
|                |                |                | S              |
|                |                |                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |
|                |                |                | since it is    |
|                |                |                | not critical   |
|                |                |                | parameter      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formula:       |
|                |                |                | Îor/Ioc =      |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 7.13 UE UL     | UE Output      | \[0.3\] dB     | DL: No test    |
| power control  | power          |                | tolerances     |
| operation with | difference:    |                | applied:       |
| discontinuous  |                |                |                |
| UL DPCCH       | Lower: -2 dB   |                | UL: Formula:   |
| transmission   |                |                | (Upper)        |
| operation      | Upper: 4 dB    |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT\            |
|                |                |                | (Lower)        |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement -- |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

F.4.4 Requirements for support of RRM
-------------------------------------

Table F.4.4: Derivation of Test Requirements (RRM tests)

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Test           | Test           | Test           | Test           |
|                | Parameters in  | Tolerance\     | Requirement in |
|                | TS 25.133      | (TT)           | TS 34.121      |
|                | \[2\]          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2 Idle Mode  |                |                |                |
| Tasks          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.2 Cell     |                |                |                |
| Re-Selection   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.2.1        | Because the    |                |                |
| Scenario 1:    | relationships  |                |                |
| Single carrier | between the    |                |                |
| case           | Test system    |                |                |
|                | uncertainties  |                |                |
|                | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1 and | [During T1 and | [During T1 and |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cells 1 and 2: | +0.60 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.60 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.60 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.60 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | -0.50 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | -0.50 dB       | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         | -0.50 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cells 3, 4, 5, | -0.50 dB       | TT             |
|                | 6:             |                |                |
|                |                | +0.03 dB for   | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | Ior(3, 4, 5,   | Requirement +  |
|                | = -10 dB       | 6)             | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | TT             |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | Ior(3, 4, 5,   |                | Requirement +  |
|                | 6) = -69.73    |                | TT             |
|                | dBm            |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior(3, 4, 5,   |
|                |                |                | 6) Minimum     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior(1) =       | -0.27 dB for   | Ior(1) Minimum |
|                | -62.73 dBm     | Ior(1)         | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | Ior(2) =       | +0.13 dB for   |                |
|                | -59.73 dBm     | Ior(2)         | Ior(2) Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior(1) =       | +0.13 dB for   | Ior(1) Minimum |
|                | -59.73 dBm     | Ior(1)         | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | Ior(2) =       | -0.27 dB for   |                |
|                | -62.73 dBm     | Ior(2)         | Ior(2) Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.2.2        | Because the    |                |                |
| Scenario 2:    | relationships  |                |                |
| Multi carrier  | between the    |                |                |
| case           | Test system    |                |                |
|                | uncertainties  |                |                |
|                | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     |
|                | during T1 and  | during T1 and  | during T1 and  |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | -0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                | -0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         | -0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cells 3 and 4: | -0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | -0.01 dB for   | []{.underline} |
|                |                | Ior(1)         |                |
|                | Ior(1) =       |                | Ior(1) Minimum |
|                | -73.39 dBm     | -0.01 dB for   | Requirement +  |
|                |                | Ior(3,4)       | TT             |
|                | Ior(3, 4) =    |                |                |
|                | -77.39 dBm     | 0.00 dB for    | Ior(3, 4)      |
|                |                | Ioc(1)         | Minimum        |
|                | Ioc(1) =       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -70.00 dBm     |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | oc(1) Minimum  |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | +0.75 dB for   | []{.underline} |
|                |                | Ior(1)         |                |
|                | Ior(1) =       |                | Ior(1) Minimum |
|                | -67.75 dBm     | -0.05 dB for   | Requirement +  |
|                |                | Ior(3, 4)      | TT             |
|                | Ior(3, 4) =    |                |                |
|                | -74.75 dBm     | -1.80 dB for   | Ior(3, 4)      |
|                |                | Ioc(1)         | Minimum        |
|                | Ioc(1) =       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -70.00 dBm     |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ioc(1) Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during T1 and  | during T1 and  | during T1 and  |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | -0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                | -0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         | -0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cells 5 and 6: | -0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | +0.75 dB for   | []{.underline} |
|                |                | Ior(2)         |                |
|                | Ior(2) =       |                | Minimum        |
|                | -67.75 dBm     | -0.05 dB for   | Requirement    |
|                |                | Ior(5, 6)      | (Ior(2)) + TT  |
|                | Ior(5, 6) =    |                |                |
|                | -74.75 dBm     | -1.80 dB for   | Minimum        |
|                |                | Ioc(2)         | Requirement    |
|                | Ioc(2) =       |                | (Ior(5, 6)) +  |
|                | -70.00 dBm     |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement    |
|                |                |                | (Ioc(2)) + TT  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | -0.01 dB for   | []{.underline} |
|                |                | Ior(2)         |                |
|                | Ior(2) =       |                | Ior(2) Minimum |
|                | -73.39 dBm     | -0.01 dB for   | Requirement +  |
|                |                | Ior(5,6)       | TT             |
|                | Ior(5, 6) =    |                |                |
|                | -77.39 dBm     | 0.00 dB for    | Ior(5, 6)      |
|                |                | Ioc(2)         | Minimum        |
|                | Ioc(2) =       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -70.00 dBm     |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ioc(2) Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.3 UTRAN to |                |                |                |
| GSM Cell       |                |                |                |
| Re-Selection   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.3.1        | During T1:     | During T1:     | During T1:     |
| Scenario 1:    |                |                |                |
| Both UTRA and  | $\ \frac{\tex  | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| GSM level      | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |                |
| changed        | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                | = -10 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | Ior/Ioc = 0 dB | 0.3 dB for     | = Minimum      |
|                |                | Ior/Ioc        | Requirement +  |
|                | RXLEV=-90 dBm  |                | TT             |
|                |                | 1.0 dB for     |                |
|                |                | RXLEV          | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | RXLEV - TT     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc = 0.3  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |                |                | {CPICH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -9.9 dB:       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Measured GSM   |
|                |                |                | Carrier RSSI ± |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be below |
|                |                |                | --90 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM).          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | During T2:     | During T2:     | During T2:     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | $\ \frac{\tex  | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
|                | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |                |
|                | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                | = -10 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | Ior/Ioc = - 5  | 0.3 dB for     | = Minimum      |
|                | dB             | Ior/Ioc        | Requirement -  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | RXLEV=-75 dBm  | 1.0 dB for     |                |
|                |                | RXLEV          | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement -  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | RXLEV + TT     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc = -5.3 |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |                |                | {CPICH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -10.1 dB:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Measured GSM   |
|                |                |                | Carrier RSSI ± |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be above |
|                |                |                | --75 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM).          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.3.2        | During T1:     | During T1:     | During T1:     |
| Scenario 2:    |                |                |                |
| Only UTRA      | $\ \frac{\tex  | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| level changed  | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |                |
|                | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                | = -10 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | Ior/Ioc = 20   | 0.3 dB for     | = Minimum      |
|                | dB             | Ior/Ioc        | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | RXLEV=-80 dBm  | 1.0 dB for     |                |
|                |                | RXLEV          | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | RXLEV - TT     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc = 20.3 |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |                |                | {CPICH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -9.9 dB:       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Measured GSM   |
|                |                |                | Carrier RSSI ± |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be below |
|                |                |                | --80 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM).          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | During T2:     | During T2:     | During T2:     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | $\ \frac{\tex  | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
|                | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |                |
|                | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                | = -10 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | Ior/Ioc = -9   | 0.3 dB for     | = Minimum      |
|                | dB             | Ior/Ioc        | Requirement -  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | RXLEV=-80 dBm  | 1.0 dB for     |                |
|                |                | RXLEV          | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement -  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | RXLEV + TT     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc = -9.3 |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |                |                | {CPICH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -10.1 dB:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Measured GSM   |
|                |                |                | Carrier RSSI ± |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be above |
|                |                |                | --80 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM).          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.3.3        | $\ \frac{\tex  | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Scenario 3:    | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |                |
| HCS with only  | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |
| UTRA level     | = -10 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
| changed        |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | Ior/Ioc = 40   | 0.3 dB for     | = Minimum      |
|                | dB             | Ior/Ioc        | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                | 1.0 dB for     |                |
|                |                | RXLEV          | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | RXLEV + TT     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc = 40.3 |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |                |                | {CPICH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -9.9 dB:       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | $\ \frac{\tex  | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
|                | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |                |
|                | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                | = -10 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | Ior/Ioc = 10   | 0.3 dB for     | = ratio - TT   |
|                | dB             | Ior/Ioc        |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                |                | 1.0 dB for     | ratio - TT     |
|                |                | RXLEV          |                |
|                |                |                | RXLEV + TT     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc = 9.7  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |                |                | {CPICH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -10.1 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.4 FDD/TDD  | TBD            |                |                |
| cell           |                |                |                |
| re-selection   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.5 UTRA to  |                |                |                |
| E-UTRA Cell    |                |                |                |
| Re-Selection   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.5.1 E-UTRA | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     |
| is of higher   | during         | during         | during         |
| priority       | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~oc~:         | 0dB            | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            |                | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz | +0.80dB        | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: | 0dB            | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | +13.00dB       |                | +13.80dB       |
|                |                | [E-UTRA cell   |                |
|                | CPIC           | during         | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: | T1             | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       | :]{.underline} | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   | -1.10dB        | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T1             | 0dB            | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                | [UTRA cell     |                |
|                | []{.underline} | during         | []{.underline} |
|                |                | T2             |                |
|                | N~oc~:         | :]{.underline} | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              |                | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz | 0dB            | 99.10dBm/15kHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    | +0.80dB        | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | -infinity dB   |                | -infinity dB   |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | [UTRA cell     |                | [UTRA cell     |
|                | during         | [E-UTRA cell   | during         |
|                | T2             | during         | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | T2             | :]{.underline} |
|                |                | :]{.underline} |                |
|                | I~oc~:         |                | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            | -1.10dB        | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                | +1.90dB        |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | +13.00dB       | [UTRA cell     | +13.80dB       |
|                |                | during         |                |
|                | CPIC           | T3             | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: | :]{.underline} | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       |                | -10.00dB       |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   |                | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         | +0.80dB        | during         |
|                | T2             |                | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | 0dB            | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | [E-UTRA cell   | []{.underline} |
|                |                | during         |                |
|                | N~oc~:         | T3             | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              | :]{.underline} | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |                | 99.10dBm/15kHz |
|                |                | -1.10dB        |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | +12.00dB       | +0.30dB        | +13.90dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [UTRA cell     |                | [UTRA cell     |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T3             |                | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~oc~:         |                | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            |                | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | +13.00dB       |                | +13.80dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPIC           |                | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       |                | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   |                | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T3             |                | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} |                | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | N~oc~:         |                | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              |                | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |                | 99.10dBm/15kHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | -4.00dB        |                | -3.70dB        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.5.2 E-UTRA | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     |
| is of lower    | during         | during         | during         |
| priority       | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~oc~:         | -0.10dB        | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            |                | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz | +0.90dB        | .10dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: | 0dB            | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | +11.00dB       |                | +11.90dB       |
|                |                | [E-UTRA cell   |                |
|                | CPIC           | during         | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: | T1             | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       | :]{.underline} | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   | 0dB            | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T1             | +0.80dB        | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                | [UTRA cell     |                |
|                | []{.underline} | during         | []{.underline} |
|                |                | T2             |                |
|                | N~oc~:         | :]{.underline} | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              |                | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz | -0.10dB        | 98.00dBm/15kHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    | -0.70dB        | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | +14.00dB       |                | +14.80dB       |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | [UTRA cell     |                | [UTRA cell     |
|                | during         | [E-UTRA cell   | during         |
|                | T2             | during         | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | T2             | :]{.underline} |
|                |                | :]{.underline} |                |
|                | I~oc~:         |                | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            | 0dB            | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |                | .10dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                | +0.80dB        |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | -5.00dB        |                | -5.70dB        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPIC           |                | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       |                | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   |                | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T2             |                | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} |                | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | N~oc~:         |                | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              |                | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | +14.00dB       |                | +14.80dB       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.2.5.3 RSRQ   | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     |
| based          | during T1, T2, | during T1, T2, | during T1, T2, |
| reselection    | T3,            | T3,            | T3,            |
| when E-UTRA    | T4             | T4             | T4             |
| FDD is of      | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
| higher         |                |                |                |
| priority       | I~oc~:         | 0dB            | []{.underline} |
|                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |                |                |
|                |                | +0.8dB         | I~oc~:         |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |
|                | +13dB          | 0dB            |                |
|                |                |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | CPIC           | [E-UTRA cell,  | +13.8dB        |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: | T1             |                |
|                | -10dB          | :]{.underline} | CPIC           |
|                |                |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   | 0dB            | -10dB          |
|                | during         |                |                |
|                | T1             | 0dB            | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | during         |
|                |                | [E-UTRA cell,  | T1             |
|                | N~oc~:         | T2             | :]{.underline} |
|                | -98dBm/15kHz   | :]{.underline} |                |
|                |                |                | N~oc~:         |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    | 0dB            | -98dBm/15kHz   |
|                | -infinity dB   |                |                |
|                |                | -0.4dB         | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   |                | -infinity dB   |
|                | during         | [E-UTRA cell,  |                |
|                | T2             | T3             | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | during         |
|                |                |                | T2             |
|                | N~oc~:         | 0dB            | :]{.underline} |
|                | -98dBm/15kHz   |                |                |
|                |                | +0.4dB         | N~oc~:         |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | -98dBm/15kHz   |
|                | -7.5dB         | [E-UTRA cell,  |                |
|                |                | T4             | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   | :]{.underline} | -7.9dB         |
|                | during         |                |                |
|                | T3             | 0dB            | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | during         |
|                |                | 0dB            | T3             |
|                | N~oc~:         |                | :]{.underline} |
|                | -98dBm/15kHz   |                |                |
|                |                |                | N~oc~:         |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | -98dBm/15kHz   |
|                | 13.09dB        |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   |                | 13.49dB        |
|                | during         |                |                |
|                | T4             |                | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | during         |
|                |                |                | T4             |
|                | N~oc~:         |                | :]{.underline} |
|                | -98dBm/15kHz   |                |                |
|                |                |                | N~oc~:         |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | -98dBm/15kHz   |
|                | -7.5dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                |                |                | -7.5dB         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3 UTRAN      | TBD            |                |                |
| Connected Mode |                |                |                |
| Mobility       |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.1 FDD/FDD  | Because the    |                |                |
| Soft Handover  | relationships  |                |                |
|                | between the    |                |                |
|                | Test system    |                |                |
|                | uncertainties  |                |                |
|                | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T0/T1  | [During T0/T1  | [During T0/T1  |
|                | and            | and            | and            |
|                | T2/T3/T4/T5/T6 | T2/T3/T4/T5/T6 | T2/T3/T4/T5/T6 |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | 0.5 chips      | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Relative delay |                | TT             |
|                | of paths       |                |                |
|                | received from  |                | {-148+TT ...   |
|                | cell 2 with    |                | 148-TT} chips  |
|                | respect to     |                |                |
|                | cell 1 = {-148 |                |                |
|                | ... 148} chips |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T0/T1          | T0/T1          | T0/T1          |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Already        | Covered above  | Already        |
|                | covered above  |                | covered above  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T2/T3/T4/T5/T6 | T2/T3/T4/T5/T6 | T2/T3/T4/T5/T6 |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.2 FDD/FDD  |                |                |                |
| Hard Handover  |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.2.1        | Because the    |                |                |
| Handover to    | relationships  |                |                |
| i              | between the    |                |                |
| ntra-frequency | Test system    |                |                |
| cell           | uncertainties  |                |                |
|                | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1 and | [During T1 /   | [During T1 and |
|                | T2 /           | T2 /           | T2 /           |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Already        | Covered above  | Already        |
|                | covered above  |                | covered above  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T2 /   | [During T2 /   | [During T2 /   |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.2.2        | Because the    |                |                |
| Handover to    | relationships  |                |                |
| i              | between the    |                |                |
| nter-frequency | Test system    |                |                |
| cell           | uncertainties  |                |                |
|                | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     |
|                | during T1 and  | during T1 and  | during T1 and  |
|                | T2 /           | T2 /           | T2 /           |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.80 dB       | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | Not applicable | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Not applicable |                | Not applicable |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during T2 /    | during T2 /    | during T2 /    |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | +0.80 dB       | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.3 FDD/TDD  | TBD            |                |                |
| Handover       |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.4          | During T2 and  | [During T2 and | During T2 and  |
| Inter-system   | T3             | T3             | T3             |
| Handover form  |                | :]{.underline} |                |
| UTRAN FDD to   | RXLEV=-75 dBm  |                | Minimum        |
| GSM            |                | \+ 1 dB for    | Requirement +  |
|                |                | RXLEV          | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Only RXLEV     |
|                |                |                | during T2 and  |
|                |                |                | T3 is a        |
|                |                |                | critical       |
|                |                |                | parameter. UE  |
|                |                |                | measurement    |
|                |                |                | accuracy for   |
|                |                |                | GSM Carrier    |
|                |                |                | RSSI is ±4 dB  |
|                |                |                | in this test.  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | During T2 and  |
|                |                |                | T3 : measured  |
|                |                |                | GSM Carrier    |
|                |                |                | RSSI ±         |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be above |
|                |                |                | --80 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM). =\>      |
|                |                |                | TT=+1 dB for   |
|                |                |                | RXLEV          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.4a         | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     |
| Inter-system   | during         | during         | during         |
| Handover from  | T1             | T1             | T1             |
| UTRAN FDD to   | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
| E-UTRAN FDD    |                |                |                |
|                | I~oc~:         | 0dB            | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            |                | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz | 0dB            | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: | 0dB            | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | 0dB            |                | 0dB            |
|                |                | [E-UTRA cell   |                |
|                | CPIC           | during         | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: | T1             | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       | :]{.underline} | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   | 0dB            | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T1             | 0dB            | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                | [UTRA cell     |                |
|                | []{.underline} | during         | []{.underline} |
|                |                | T2             |                |
|                | N~oc~:         | :]{.underline} | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              |                | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz | 0dB            | 98.00dBm/15kHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    | 0dB            | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | -infinity dB   |                | -infinity dB   |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | [UTRA cell     |                | [UTRA cell     |
|                | during         | [E-UTRA cell   | during         |
|                | T2             | during         | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | T2             | :]{.underline} |
|                |                | :]{.underline} |                |
|                | I~oc~:         |                | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            | 0dB            | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                | +1.1dB         |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | 0dB            | [UTRA cell     | 0dB            |
|                |                | during         |                |
|                | CPIC           | T3             | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: | :]{.underline} | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       |                | -10.00dB       |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   |                | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         | 0dB            | during         |
|                | T2             |                | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | 0dB            | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | [E-UTRA cell   | []{.underline} |
|                |                | during         |                |
|                | N~oc~:         | T3             | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              | :]{.underline} | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | +7.00dB        | +1.1dB         | +8.1dB         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [UTRA cell     |                | [UTRA cell     |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T3             |                | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~oc~:         |                | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            |                | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | 0dB            |                | 0dB            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPIC           |                | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       |                | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   |                | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T3             |                | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} |                | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | N~oc~:         |                | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              |                | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | +7.00dB        |                | +8.1dB         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.4b         | Same as 8.3.4a | Same as 8.3.4a | Same as 8.3.4a |
| Inter-system   |                |                |                |
| Handover from  |                |                |                |
| UTRAN FDD to   |                |                |                |
| E-UTRAN TDD    |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.4c         | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     |
| Inter-system   | during         | during         | during         |
| Handover from  | T1             | T1             | T1             |
| UTRAN FDD to   | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
| E-UTRAN FDD:   |                |                |                |
| Unknown Target | I~oc~:         | 0dB            | I~oc~:         |
| Cell           | -70            |                | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz | 0dB            | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: | 0dB            | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | 0dB            |                | 0dB            |
|                |                | [E-UTRA cell   |                |
|                | CPIC           | during         | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: | T1             | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       | :]{.underline} | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   | 0dB            | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T1             | 0dB            | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                | [UTRA cell     |                |
|                | []{.underline} | during         | []{.underline} |
|                |                | T2             |                |
|                | N~oc~:         | :]{.underline} | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              |                | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz | 0dB            | 98.00dBm/15kHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    | 0dB            | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | -infinity dB   |                | -infinity dB   |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | [UTRA cell     |                | [UTRA cell     |
|                | during         | [E-UTRA cell   | during         |
|                | T2             | during         | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | T2             | :]{.underline} |
|                |                | :]{.underline} |                |
|                | I~oc~:         |                | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            | 0dB            | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | 0dB            |                | 0dB            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPIC           |                | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       |                | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   |                | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T2             |                | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} |                | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | N~oc~:         |                | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              |                | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | 0dB            |                | 0dB            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.4d         | Same as 8.3.4c | Same as 8.3.4c | Same as 8.3.4c |
| Inter-system   |                |                |                |
| Handover from  |                |                |                |
| UTRAN FDD to   |                |                |                |
| E-UTRAN TDD;   |                |                |                |
| Unknown Target |                |                |                |
| Cell           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5 Cell     |                |                |                |
| Re-selection   |                |                |                |
| in CELL\_FACH  |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.1 One    | Because the    |                |                |
| frequency      | relationships  |                |                |
| present in the | between the    |                |                |
| neighbour list | Test system    |                |                |
|                | uncertainties  |                |                |
|                | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1 and | [During T1 and | [During T1 and |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cells 1 and 2: | +0.60 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.60 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.60 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.60 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.60 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | -0.50 dB       | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         | -0.50 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | S              | -0.50 dB       | TT             |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | -0.50 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cells 3, 4, 5, | -0.50 dB       | TT             |
|                | 6:             |                |                |
|                |                | +0.03 dB for   | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | Ior(3, 4, 5,   | Requirement +  |
|                | = -10 dB       | 6)             | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | TT             |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | S              |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | TT             |
|                | = -12 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | Ior(3, 4, 5,   |                | Requirement +  |
|                | 6) = -69.73    |                | TT             |
|                | dBm            |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior(3, 4, 5,   |
|                |                |                | 6) Minimum     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior(1) =       | -0.27 dB for   | Minimum        |
|                | -62.73 dBm     | Ior(1)         | Requirement    |
|                |                |                | (Ior(1)) + TT  |
|                | Ior(2) =       | +0.13 dB for   |                |
|                | -59.73 dBm     | Ior(2)         | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement    |
|                |                |                | (Ior(2)) + TT  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior(1) =       | +0.13 dB for   | Ior(1) Minimum |
|                | -59.73 dBm     | Ior(1)         | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | Ior(2) =       | -0.27 dB for   |                |
|                | -62.73 dBm     | Ior(2)         | or(2) Minimum  |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.1a One   | Same as        |                |                |
| frequency      | 8.3.5.1        |                |                |
| present in     |                |                |                |
| neighbour list |                |                |                |
| and HS-DSCH    |                |                |                |
| DRX configured |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.2 Two    | Because the    |                |                |
| frequencies    | relationships  |                |                |
| present in the | between the    |                |                |
| neighbour list | Test system    |                |                |
|                | uncertainties  |                |                |
|                | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| []{.underline} | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     |
|                | during T1 and  | during T1 and  | during T1 and  |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.60 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.60 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.60 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.60 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.60 dB       | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                | -0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         | -0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | S              | -0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | -0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cells 3 and 4: | -0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | S              |                | TT             |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | +0.05 dB for   | []{.underline} |
|                |                | Ior(1)         |                |
|                | Ior(1) =       |                | Ior(1) Minimum |
|                | -71.85 dBm     | +0.05 dB for   | Requirement +  |
|                |                | Ior(3,4)       | TT             |
|                | Ior(3, 4) =    |                |                |
|                | -76.85 dBm     | 0.00 dB for    | Ior(3, 4)      |
|                |                | Ioc(1)         | Minimum        |
|                | Ioc(1) =       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -70.00 dBm     |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ioc(1) Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | +0.75 dB for   | []{.underline} |
|                |                | Ior(1)         |                |
|                | Ior(1) =       |                | Ior(1) Minimum |
|                | -67.75 dBm     | -0.05 dB for   | Requirement +  |
|                |                | Ior(3, 4)      | TT             |
|                | Ior(3, 4) =    |                |                |
|                | -74.75 dBm     | -1.60 dB for   | Ior(3, 4)      |
|                |                | Ioc(1)         | Minimum        |
|                | Ioc(1) =       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -70.00 dBm     |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ioc(1) Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during T1 and  | during T1 and  | during T1 and  |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.60 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.60 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.60 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.60 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.60 dB       | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                | -0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         | -0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | S              | -0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | -0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cells 5 and 6: | -0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | S              |                | TT             |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | +0.75 dB for   | []{.underline} |
|                |                | Ior(2)         |                |
|                | Ior(2) =       |                | Ior(2) Minimum |
|                | -67.75 dBm     | -0.05 dB for   | Requirement +  |
|                |                | Ior(5, 6)      | TT             |
|                | Ior(5, 6) =    |                |                |
|                | -74.75 dBm     | -1.60 dB for   | Ior(5, 6)      |
|                |                | Ioc(2)         | Minimum        |
|                | Ioc(2) =       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -70.00 dBm     |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ioc(2) Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | +0.05 dB for   | []{.underline} |
|                |                | Ior(2)         |                |
|                | Ior(2) =       |                | Ior(2) Minimum |
|                | -71.85 dBm     | +0.05 dB for   | Requirement +  |
|                |                | Ior(5,6)       | TT             |
|                | Ior(5, 6) =    |                |                |
|                | -76.85 dBm     | 0.00 dB for    | Ior(5, 6)      |
|                |                | Ioc(2)         | Minimum        |
|                | Ioc(2) =       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -70.00 dBm     |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ioc(2) Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.2A Two   | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| frequencies    | 8.2.2.2        | 8.2.2.2        | 8.2.2.2        |
| present in the |                |                |                |
| neighbour list |                |                |                |
| and HS-DSCH    |                |                |                |
| DRX configured |                |                |                |
| (Absolute      |                |                |                |
| priority       |                |                |                |
| levels not     |                |                |                |
| configured)    |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.2B Two   | FFS            | FFS            | FFS            |
| frequencies    |                |                |                |
| present in the |                |                |                |
| neighbour list |                |                |                |
| and HS-DSCH    |                |                |                |
| DRX configured |                |                |                |
| (Absolute      |                |                |                |
| priority       |                |                |                |
| levels         |                |                |                |
| configured)    |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.2C Two   | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| frequencies    | 8.2.2.2        | 8.2.2.2        | 8.2.2.2        |
| present in the |                |                |                |
| neighbour list |                |                |                |
| and HS-DSCH    |                |                |                |
| 2^nd^ DRX      |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| (Absolute      |                |                |                |
| priority       |                |                |                |
| levels not     |                |                |                |
| configured)    |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.3 Cell   | [During        | [During        | [During        |
| Re-selection   | T1             | T1             | T1             |
| to GSM         | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | 0.1 dB for     | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                | $\ \frac{\tex  | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | _{\text{or}}}$ |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -10 dB       | 0.3 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | Ior/Ioc        |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc = 0 dB |                | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                |                | 1.0 dB for     | Minimum        |
|                | RXLEV=-90 dBm  | RXLEV          | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | Ioc/RXLEV = 20 |                |                |
|                |                |                | RXLEV - TT     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc = 0.3  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |                |                | {CPICH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -9.9 dB:       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Measured GSM   |
|                |                |                | Carrier RSSI ± |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be below |
|                |                |                | --90 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM).          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| []{.underline} | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | 0.1 dB for     | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                | $\ \frac{\tex  | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ | = Minimum      |
|                | _{\text{or}}}$ |                | Requirement -  |
|                | = -10 dB       | 0.3 dB for     | TT             |
|                |                | Ior/Ioc        |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc = - 5  |                | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                | dB             | 1.0 dB for     | Minimum        |
|                |                | RXLEV          | Requirement -  |
|                | RXLEV=-75 dBm  |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ioc/RXLEV = 5  |                | RXLEV + TT     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc = -5.3 |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |                |                | {CPICH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -10.1 dB:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Measured GSM   |
|                |                |                | Carrier RSSI ± |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be above |
|                |                |                | --75 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM).          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.4 Cell   | Because the    |                |                |
| Reselection    | relationships  |                |                |
| during an MBMS | between the    |                |                |
| session, two   | Test system    |                |                |
| frequencies    | uncertainties  |                |                |
| present in     | and the Test   |                |                |
| neighbour list | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     |
|                | during T2 and  | during T2 and  | during T2 and  |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 1:        | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +1.00 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +1.00 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | S              |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ioc(1) =       | -1.52 dB for   | Ioc(1) Minimum |
|                | -70.00 dBm     | Ioc(1)         | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during T1, T2  | during T1, T2  | during T1, T2  |
|                | and            | and            | and            |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 2:        | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +1.00 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +1.00 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                | +1.00 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | S-             |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | CCPCH1\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | S-             |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | CCPCH2\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -6 dB        |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ioc(2) =       | -1.38 dB for   | Ioc(2) Minimum |
|                | -70.00 dBm     | Ioc(2)         | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.5.1      | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| Reselection to | 8.2.5.1 during | 8.2.5.1 during | 8.2.5.1 during |
| E-UTRA FDD     | T2             | T1 and T2      | T1 and T2      |
| when HS-DSCH   |                |                |                |
| DRX is         |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| (E-UTRA has    |                |                |                |
| higher         |                |                |                |
| priority)      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.5.2      | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| Reselection to | 8.2.5.2 during | 8.2.5.2 during | 8.2.5.2 during |
| E-UTRA FDD     | T1 and T2      | T1 and T2      | T1 and T2      |
| when HS-DSCH   |                |                |                |
| DRX is         |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| (E-UTRA has    |                |                |                |
| lower          |                |                |                |
| priority)      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.5.3      | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| Reselection to | 8.2.5.1 during | 8.2.5.1 during | 8.2.5.1 during |
| E-UTRA FDD     | T1 and T2      | T1 and T2      | T1 and T2      |
| when HS-DSCH   |                |                |                |
| 2nd DRX is     |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| (E-UTRA has    |                |                |                |
| higher         |                |                |                |
| priority)      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.5.4      | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| Reselection to | 8.2.5.1 during | 8.2.5.1 during | 8.2.5.1 during |
| E-UTRA TDD     | T2             | T1 and T2      | T1 and T2      |
| when HS-DSCH   |                |                |                |
| DRX is         |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| (E-UTRA has    |                |                |                |
| higher         |                |                |                |
| priority)      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.5.5      | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| Reselection to | 8.2.5.2 during | 8.2.5.2 during | 8.2.5.2 during |
| E-UTRA TDD     | T1 and T2      | T1 and T2      | T1 and T2      |
| when HS-DSCH   |                |                |                |
| DRX is         |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| (E-UTRA has    |                |                |                |
| lower          |                |                |                |
| priority)      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.5.5.6      | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| Reselection to | 8.2.5.1 during | 8.2.5.1 during | 8.2.5.1 during |
| E-UTRA TDD     | T1 and T2      | T1 and T2      | T1 and T2      |
| when HS-DSCH   |                |                |                |
| 2nd DRX is     |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| configured     |                |                |                |
| (E-UTRA has    |                |                |                |
| higher         |                |                |                |
| priority)      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.6 Cell     |                |                |                |
| Re-selection   |                |                |                |
| in CELL\_PCH   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.6.1 One    | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| frequency      | 8.2.2.1        | 8.2.2.1        | 8.2.2.1        |
| present in the |                |                |                |
| neighbour list |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | $\ \frac{\tex  | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
|                | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |                |
|                | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                | = -10 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | $              | 0.3 dB for     | = Minimum      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | Ior/Ioc        | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 70 dBm     |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc =      |                | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                | 10.27 dB       |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Note:          |                | TT             |
|                | Parameters are |                |                |
|                | valid for cell |                | Ioc unchanged  |
|                | 1 at time T2   |                |                |
|                | and cell 2 at  |                | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                | time T1        |                | 10.57 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                |                |                | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                |                | =-9.9 dB:      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.6.2 Two    | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| frequencies    | 8.2.2.2        | 8.2.2.2        | 8.2.2.2        |
| present in the |                |                |                |
| neighbour list |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | $\ \frac{\tex  | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
|                | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |                |
|                | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                | = -10 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | $              | 0.3 dB for     | = Minimum      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | Ior/Ioc        | Requirement +  |
|                | = - 70 dBm     |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc = 2.2  |                | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                | dB             |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Note:          |                | TT             |
|                | Parameters are |                |                |
|                | valid for cell |                | Ioc unchanged  |
|                | 1 at time T2   |                |                |
|                | and cell 2 at  |                | Ioc ratio      |
|                | time T1        |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc = 2.5  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $\ \frac{\text |
|                |                |                | {CPICH}_{}}{I_ |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}}}$= |
|                |                |                | -9.9 dB:       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.6.3 Cell   | Same way as    | Same way as    | Same way as    |
| re-selection   | 8.3.5.4 for    | 8.3.5.4 for    | 8.3.5.4 for    |
| during an MBMS | Channel 1 and  | Channel 1 and  | Channel 1 and  |
| session, one   | 2 during T1    | 2 during T1    | 2 during T1    |
| UTRAN          | and T2.        | and T2.        | and T2.        |
| i              |                |                |                |
| nter-frequency |                |                |                |
| and 2 GSM      |                |                |                |
| cells present  |                |                |                |
| in the         |                |                |                |
| neighbour list |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     | [Channel 1     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 1:        | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +1.00 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +1.00 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | S              |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during T1 and  | during T1 and  | during T1 and  |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 2:        | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +1.00 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +1.00 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +1.00 dB       | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                | +1.00 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | S-             |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | CCPCH1\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | S-             |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | CCPCH2\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -6.8 dB      |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ioc(2) =       | -1.50 dB for   | Ioc(2) Minimum |
|                | -70.00 dBm     | Ioc(2)         | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | -0.1 dB for    | []{.underline} |
|                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  |                |
|                | $\ \frac{\tex  | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | $\ \frac{\tex  |
|                | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ | t{CPICH}_{}}{I |
|                | _{\text{or}}}$ |                | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | = -10 dB       | -0.3 dB for    | = Minimum      |
|                |                | Ior/Ioc        | Requirement +  |
|                | Ior/Ioc = -15  |                | TT             |
|                | dB             |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc =      |
|                |                |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [GSM During    | [GSM During    | [GSM During    |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | RXLEV1=-85 dBm | -1.0 dB for    | RXLEV + TT     |
|                |                | RXLEV1         |                |
|                | RXLEV2=-85 dBm |                | RXLEV + TT     |
|                |                | -1.0 dB for    |                |
|                |                | RXLEV2         | Measured GSM   |
|                |                |                | Carrier RSSI ± |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be below |
|                |                |                | --85 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM).          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [GSM During    | [GSM During    | [GSM During    |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | RXLEV2=-85 dBm | +1.0 dB for    | RXLEV + TT     |
|                |                | RXLEV2         |                |
|                |                |                | Measured GSM   |
|                |                |                | Carrier RSSI ± |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be above |
|                |                |                | --85 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM).          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.7 Cell     |                |                |                |
| Re-selection   |                |                |                |
| in URA\_PCH    |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.7.1 One    | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| frequency      | 8.2.2.1        | 8.2.2.1        | 8.2.2.1        |
| present in the |                |                |                |
| neighbour list |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.7.2 Two    | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| frequencies    | 8.2.2.2        | 8.2.2.2        | 8.2.2.2        |
| present in the |                |                |                |
| neighbour list |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.8 Serving  | Because the    |                |                |
| HS-DSCH cell   | relationships  |                |                |
| change         | between the    |                |                |
|                | Test system    |                |                |
|                | uncertainties  |                |                |
|                | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T0/T1/T2/T3    | T0/T1/T2/T3    | T0/T1/T2/T3    |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | HS             | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | H              | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -13 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 2:        | 0.5 chips      | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Relative delay |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | of paths       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | received from  |                | TT             |
|                | cell 2 with    |                |                |
|                | respect to     |                | {-148+TT ...   |
|                | cell 1 = {-148 |                | 148-TT} chips  |
|                | ... 148} chips |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T              | T              | T              |
|                | 0]{.underline} | 0]{.underline} | 0]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Already        | Covered above  | Already        |
|                | covered above  |                | covered above  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T1/T2/T        | T1/T2/T        | T1/T2/T        |
|                | 3]{.underline} | 3]{.underline} | 3]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2:        | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| []{.underline} | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T4             | T4             | T4             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | 0.5 chips      | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | HS             |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | H              |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | S-SCCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -13 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Relative delay |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | of paths       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | received from  |                | TT             |
|                | cell 2 with    |                |                |
|                | respect to     |                | {-148+TT ...   |
|                | cell 1 = {-148 |                | 148-TT} chips  |
|                | ... 148} chips |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.9 Enhanced | Because the    |                |                |
| Serving        | relationships  |                |                |
| HS-DSCH cell   | between the    |                |                |
| change         | Test system    |                |                |
|                | uncertainties  |                |                |
|                | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | of TC 8.3.9 is |                |                |
|                | not recorded   |                |                |
|                | in 3GPP TR 34  |                |                |
|                | 902 \[24\] but |                |                |
|                | it would be    |                |                |
|                | very similar   |                |                |
|                | to TC 8.3.8    |                |                |
|                | analysis, and  |                |                |
|                | therefore it   |                |                |
|                | is safe to     |                |                |
|                | assume to      |                |                |
|                | apply the same |                |                |
|                | principle in   |                |                |
|                | TC 8.3.9       |                |                |
|                | tolerances as  |                |                |
|                | in TC 8.3.8    |                |                |
|                | tolerances.    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T1/T2          | T1/T2          | T1/T2          |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | HS             | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | HS-            | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | SCCH-1\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -13 dB       | 0.5 chips      | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 2:        |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Relative delay |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | of paths       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | received from  |                | TT             |
|                | cell 2 with    |                |                |
|                | respect to     |                | {-148+TT ...   |
|                | cell 1 = {-148 |                | 148-TT} chips  |
|                | ... 148} chips |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | 0.5 chips      | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | HS-            |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | SCCH-1\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -13 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Relative delay |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | of paths       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | received from  |                | TT             |
|                | cell 2 with    |                |                |
|                | respect to     |                | {-148+TT ...   |
|                | cell 1 = {-148 |                | 148-TT} chips  |
|                | ... 148} chips |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T4             | T4             | T4             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | 0.5 chips      | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | TT             |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Requirement +  |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | HS             |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | -PDSCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | HS-            |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | SCCH-2\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -13 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Relative delay |                | Ec/Ior Min     |
|                | of paths       |                | Requirement +  |
|                | received from  |                | TT             |
|                | cell 2 with    |                |                |
|                | respect to     |                | {-148+TT ...   |
|                | cell 1 = {-148 |                | 148-TT} chips  |
|                | ... 148} chips |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.10 System  | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
| information    |                |                |                |
| acquisition    |                |                |                |
| for CSG cell   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.10.1       | Because the    |                |                |
| Intrafrequency | relationships  |                |                |
| System         | between the    |                |                |
| information    | Test system    |                |                |
| acquisition    | uncertainties  |                |                |
| for CSG cell   | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| []{.underline} | [During        | [During T1 /   | [During T1 /   |
|                | T1/T2          | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| []{.underline} | [During        | During T1:     | During T1:     |
|                | T1             |                |                |
|                | :]{.underline} | Covered above  | Already        |
|                |                |                | covered above  |
|                | []{.underline} |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Already        |                |                |
|                | covered above  |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During        | [During        | [During        |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2:        | []{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB [       |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | ]{.underline}  |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.3.10.2 Inter | Because the    |                |                |
| frequency      | relationships  |                |                |
| System         | between the    |                |                |
| information    | Test system    |                |                |
| acquisition    | uncertainties  |                |                |
| for CSG cell   | and the Test   |                |                |
|                | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| []{.underline} | Channel 1      | [Channel 1     | Channel 1      |
|                | during T1 and  | during T1 and  | during T1 and  |
|                | T2 / T3:       | T2 /           | T2 / T3:       |
|                |                | T3             |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | :]{.underline} | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | []{.underline} | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     | [Channel 2     |
|                | during         | during         | during         |
|                | T1             | T1             | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [Not           | [Not           | [Not           |
|                | applicabl      | applicabl      | applicabl      |
|                | e]{.underline} | e]{.underline} | e]{.underline} |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| []{.underline} | Channel 2      | Channel 2      | Channel 2      |
|                | during T2 /    | during T2 /    | during T2 /    |
|                | T3:            | T3:            | T3:            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                | Requirement +  |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                | Ec/Ior Minimum |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4 RRC        |                |                |                |
| Connection     |                |                |                |
| Control        |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4.1 RRC      | TBD            |                |                |
| Re             |                |                |                |
| -establishment |                |                |                |
| delay          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4.1.1 Test 1 | Cell 1, T1:    | 0.1 dB for     | Level settings |
|                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  | in either      |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | direction are  |
|                | = -10 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | not critical   |
|                |                |                | with respect   |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | 0.3 dB for     | to the outcome |
|                | = -12 dB       | Ior/Ioc        | of the test.   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | DCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -17 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc = 2.39 |                |                |
|                | dB             |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1, T2:    |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc =      |                |                |
|                | -infinity      |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2, T1:    |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                |                |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc = 4.39 |                |                |
|                | dB             |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2, T2:    |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                |                |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc = 0.02 |                |                |
|                | dB             |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4.1.2 Test 2 | Cell 1, T1:    | 0.1 dB for     | Level settings |
|                |                | $\ \frac{\tex  | in either      |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | t{CPICH}_{}}{I | direction are  |
|                | = -10 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | not critical   |
|                |                |                | with respect   |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | 0.3 dB for     | to the outcome |
|                | = -12 dB       | Ior/Ioc        | of the test.   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | DCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -17 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc =      |                |                |
|                | -3.35 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1, T2:    |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc =      |                |                |
|                | -infinity      |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2, T1:    |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc =      |                |                |
|                | -infinity      |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2, T2:    |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                |                |
|                | = -10 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ior/Ioc = 0.02 |                |                |
|                | dB             |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4.2 Random   | PRACH power    | Measurement    | Test parameter |
| Access         | difference     | TT: Power      | settings       |
|                | nominal 3dB ±  | difference ±   | unchanged.     |
|                | 2dB UE setting | 1dBMaximum     | Power          |
|                | uncertainty    | Power-1dB /    | measurement:   |
|                |                | +0.7dB         | Upper limit    |
|                |                |                | +TT Lower      |
|                |                |                | limit -TT      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4.2.1A       | PRACH timing   | 0.5 chips      | Formula:\      |
| Correct        | error ±3.5     |                | Upper limit +  |
| behaviour when | chips          |                | TT\            |
| receiving an   |                |                | Lower limit -- |
| ACK (Release 6 |                |                | TT             |
| and later)     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4.2.4 Random | Maximum        | 1.0 dB         | Formula:\      |
| Access correct | preamble       |                | Upper limit +  |
| behaviour when | power=0dBm±9dB |                | TT\            |
| reaching       | (Normal)       |                | Lower limit -- |
| maximum        |                |                | TT             |
| transmit power | Maximum        |                |                |
|                | preamble       |                | For Normal     |
|                | p              |                | conditions:    |
|                | ower=0dBm±12dB |                |                |
|                | (Extreme)      |                | Upper          |
|                |                |                | Tolerance      |
|                |                |                | limit = +10    |
|                |                |                | dB\            |
|                |                |                | Lower          |
|                |                |                | Tolerance      |
|                |                |                | limit = -10 dB |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | For Extreme    |
|                |                |                | conditions:    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Upper          |
|                |                |                | Tolerance      |
|                |                |                | limit = +13    |
|                |                |                | dB\            |
|                |                |                | Lower          |
|                |                |                | Tolerance      |
|                |                |                | limit = -13 dB |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4.3          | DL Power       | 0 dB for       | No test        |
| Transport      | control is ON  | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | requirements   |
| format         | so             |                | for            |
| combination    | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   |                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   |
| selection in   | depends on TPC |                |                |
| UE             | commands sent  |                |                |
|                | by UE          |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4.4 E-TFC    |                |                |                |
| restriction in |                |                |                |
| UE             |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4.4.1 10ms   | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| TTI E-DCH      | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| E-TFC          | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| restriction    | -3.47, -10,    | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
|                | -31dB          | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | Îor = -70 dBm  |                |                |
|                |                | 0.7 dB for Îor | Îor = Minimum  |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.4.4.2 2ms    | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| TTI E-DCH      | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| E-TFC          | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| restriction    | -3.5, -10,     | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
|                | -24.4dB        | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | Îor = -70 dBm  |                |                |
|                |                | 0.7 dB for Îor | Îor = Minimum  |
|                |                |                | Requirement +  |
|                |                |                | TT             |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.5 Timing and |                |                |                |
| Signalling     |                |                |                |
| C              |                |                |                |
| haracteristics |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.5.1 UE       | DPCH\_Ec/Ior = | 0.1 dB for     | Since the test |
| Transmit       | -13.5 dB       | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | is performed   |
| Timing         |                |                | close to       |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | 0.1 dB for     | sensitivity    |
|                | = -10 dB       | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | level any TT   |
|                |                |                | applied to the |
|                | Îor1=-96 dB    | 0.1 dB for     | nominal        |
|                |                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   | setting shall  |
|                | Îor2=-99 dB    |                | fulfil:        |
|                |                | 1 dB for Îor1  |                |
|                | Rx-Tx Timing   |                | Îor1 shall not |
|                | accuracy ±1.5  | 1.3 dB for     | go below --96  |
|                | chips          | Îor2           | dBm            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ¼ chip / 200ms | 0.5 chips for  | Îor2 shall not |
|                | maximum rate   | Rx-Tx timing   | go below --99  |
|                |                | accuracy       | dBm            |
|                | 233ns / s      |                |                |
|                | minimum rate   | 0.25 chips for | Îor1/Îor2      |
|                |                | Tx-Tx Timing   | shall not go   |
|                |                | Accuracy       | above 3 dB     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | below --13.5   |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | below --10 dB  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formulas for   |
|                |                |                | test           |
|                |                |                | parameters     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior   |
|                |                |                | +TT            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | + TT           |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Îor1 + TT      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Îor2 + TT      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Rx-Tx Timing   |
|                |                |                | accuracy ±2.0  |
|                |                |                | chip           |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formulas for   |
|                |                |                | test           |
|                |                |                | requirements:  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Upper limit    |
|                |                |                | +TT            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Lower limit    |
|                |                |                | --TT           |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Tx-Tx Timing   |
|                |                |                | accuracies     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formulas for   |
|                |                |                | test           |
|                |                |                | requirements:  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Upper limit    |
|                |                |                | +TT            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Lower limit    |
|                |                |                | --TT           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6 UE         |                |                |                |
| Measurements   |                |                |                |
| Procedures     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.1 FDD      |                |                |                |
| intra          |                |                |                |
| frequency      |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.1.1 Event  | Because the    |                |                |
| triggered      | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting in   | between the    |                |                |
| AWGN           | Test system    |                |                |
| propagation    | uncertainties  |                |                |
| conditions     | and the Test   |                |                |
| (R99)          | Tolerances are |                |                |
|                | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1 to  | [During T1 to  | [During T1 to  |
|                | T4             | T4             | T4             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1/T4  | [During T1/T4  | [During T1/T4  |
|                | only           | only           | only           |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Already        | Covered above  | Already        |
|                | covered above  |                | covered above  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T2/T3  | [During T2/T3  | [During T2/T3  |
|                | only           | only           | only           |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.1.1A Event | Because the    |                |                |
| triggered      | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting in   | between the    |                |                |
| AWGN           | Test system    |                |                |
| propagation    | uncertainties  |                |                |
| conditions     | and the Test   |                |                |
| (Rel-4 and     | Tolerances are |                |                |
| later)         | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1 /   | [During T1 /   | [During T1 /   |
|                | T2 /           | T2 /           | T2 /           |
|                | T3             | T3             | T3             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1/T3  | [During T1/T3  | [During T1/T3  |
|                | only           | only           | only           |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Already        | Covered above  | Already        |
|                | covered above  |                | covered above  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T2     | [During T2     | [During T2     |
|                | only           | only           | only           |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2:        | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | = -10 dB       |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.1.2 Event  | Because the    |                |                |
| triggered      | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| multiple       | Test system    |                |                |
| neighbours in  | uncertainties  |                |                |
| AWGN           | and the Test   |                |                |
| propagation    | Tolerances are |                |                |
| condition      | complex, it is |                |                |
| (R99)          | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  |
|                | T6             | T6             | T6             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1, Cell 2 | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | and Cell 3:    |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.1.2A Event | Because the    |                |                |
| triggered      | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| multiple       | Test system    |                |                |
| neighbours in  | uncertainties  |                |                |
| AWGN           | and the Test   |                |                |
| propagation    | Tolerances are |                |                |
| condition      | complex, it is |                |                |
| (Rel-4 and     | not possible   |                |                |
| later)         | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  |
|                | T4             | T4             | T4             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1, Cell 2 | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | and Cell 3:    |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.1.3 Event  | Because the    |                |                |
| triggered      | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| two detectable | Test system    |                |                |
| neighbours in  | uncertainties  |                |                |
| AWGN           | and the Test   |                |                |
| propagation    | Tolerances are |                |                |
| condition      | complex, it is |                |                |
| (R99)          | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].TBD     |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  |
|                | T5             | T5             | T5             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1, Cell 2 | +0.40 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | and Cell 3:    |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.40 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.40 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.40 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.40 dB       |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -17 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.1.3A Event | Because the    |                |                |
| triggered      | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| two detectable | Test system    |                |                |
| neighbours in  | uncertainties  |                |                |
| AWGN           | and the Test   |                |                |
| propagation    | Tolerances are |                |                |
| condition      | complex, it is |                |                |
| (Rel-4 and     | not possible   |                |                |
| later)         | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  |
|                | T4             | T4             | T4             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1, Cell 2 | +0.40 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | and Cell 3:    |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.40 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.40 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.40 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.40 dB       |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -17 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.1.4A       | Because the    |                |                |
| Correct        | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| neighbours in  | Test system    |                |                |
| fading         | uncertainties  |                |                |
| propagation    | and the Test   |                |                |
| condition      | Tolerances are |                |                |
| (Rel-4 and     | complex, it is |                |                |
| later)         | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | During T1      | During T1:     | During T1:     |
|                | only:          |                |                |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | Cell 1:        |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10dB        | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         | +0.30 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = | +0.30 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.30 dB       |                |
|                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -17 dB         | +0.30 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2:        |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                |                |
|                | = -10dB        |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | During T2      | During T2:     | During T2:     |
|                | only:          |                |                |
|                |                | +0.30 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | Cell 1:        |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.30 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10dB        | +0.30 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.30 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.30 dB       |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -17 dB         | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 2:        |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                |                |
|                | = -10dB        |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior |                |                |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                |                |
|                | -12 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.1.5 Event  | Because the    |                |                |
| triggered      | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| multiple       | Test system    |                |                |
| neighbour      | uncertainties  |                |                |
| cells in Case  | and the Test   |                |                |
| 1 fading       | Tolerances are |                |                |
| condition      | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1 and | [During T1 and | [During T1 and |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1, 2, 3   | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | and Cell 4:    |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.1.6 Event  | Because the    |                |                |
| triggered      | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| multiple       | Test system    |                |                |
| neighbour      | uncertainties  |                |                |
| cells in Case  | and the Test   |                |                |
| 3 fading       | Tolerances are |                |                |
| conditions     | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1 and | [During T1 and | [During T1 and |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1, 2, 3   | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | and Cell 4:    |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.70 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.70 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.70 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.2 FDD      | TBD            |                |                |
| inter          |                |                |                |
| frequency      |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.2.1        | Because the    |                |                |
| Correct        | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| neighbours in  | Test system    |                |                |
| AWGN           | uncertainties  |                |                |
| propagation    | and the Test   |                |                |
| condition      | Tolerances are |                |                |
| (Release 5 and | complex, it is |                |                |
| earlier)       | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1, Cell 2 | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | and Cell 3:    |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -17 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.2.1A       | Because the    |                |                |
| Correct        | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| neighbours in  | Test system    |                |                |
| AWGN           | uncertainties  |                |                |
| propagation    | and the Test   |                |                |
| condition      | Tolerances are |                |                |
| (Release 6 and | complex, it is |                |                |
| later)         | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| []{.underline} | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1, Cell 2 | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | and Cell 3:    |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         | []{.underline} | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -15 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1:        |                | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | DPCH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -17 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.2.2        | Because the    |                |                |
| Correct        | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| neighbours in  | Test system    |                |                |
| Fading         | uncertainties  |                |                |
| propagation    | and the Test   |                |                |
| condition      | Tolerances are |                |                |
| (Release 5     | complex, it is |                |                |
| only)          | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1 and | [During T1 and | [During T1 and |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1 and     | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | Cell 2:        |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.2.2A       | Because the    |                |                |
| Correct        | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| neighbours in  | Test system    |                |                |
| Fading         | uncertainties  |                |                |
| propagation    | and the Test   |                |                |
| condition      | Tolerances are |                |                |
| (Release 6 and | complex, it is |                |                |
| later)         | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
|                | The analysis   |                |                |
|                | is recorded in |                |                |
|                | 3GPP TR 34 902 |                |                |
|                | \[24\].        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| []{.underline} | [During T1 and | [During T1 and | [During T1 and |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1 and     | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | Cell 2:        |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.2.3        | Because the    |                |                |
| Correct        | relationships  |                |                |
| reporting of   | between the    |                |                |
| neighbours in  | Test system    |                |                |
| Fading         | uncertainties  |                |                |
| propagation    | and the Test   |                |                |
| condition      | Tolerances are |                |                |
| using TGL1=14  | complex, it is |                |                |
|                | not possible   |                |                |
|                | to give a      |                |                |
|                | simple         |                |                |
|                | derivation of  |                |                |
|                | the Test       |                |                |
|                | Requirement in |                |                |
|                | this document. |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | [During T1 and | [During T1 and | [During T1 and |
|                | T2             | T2             | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Cell 1 and     | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | Cell 2:        |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = |                |                |
|                | -15 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.3 TDD      | TBD            |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.3.1Correct | TBD            |                |                |
| reporting of   |                |                |                |
| TDD neighbours |                |                |                |
| in AWGN        |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| condition      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.4 GSM      |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.4.1        | During T2      | [During        | During T2 and  |
| Correct        |                | T2             | T3             |
| reporting of   | RXLEV=-75 dBm  | :]{.underline} |                |
| GSM neighbours |                |                | RXLEV + TT     |
| in AWGN        | During T3      | \+ 1 dB for    |                |
| propagation    |                | RXLEV          | Only RXLEV is  |
| condition      | RXLEV=-85 dBm  |                | a critical     |
|                |                | [During        | parameter. UE  |
|                |                | T3             | measurement    |
|                |                | :]{.underline} | accuracy for   |
|                |                |                | GSM Carrier    |
|                |                | -1 dB for      | RSSI is ±4 dB  |
|                |                | RXLEV          | in this test.  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | During T2:     |
|                |                |                | measured GSM   |
|                |                |                | Carrier RSSI ± |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be above |
|                |                |                | --80 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM). =\>      |
|                |                |                | TT=+1 dB for   |
|                |                |                | RXLEV          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | During T3:     |
|                |                |                | measured GSM   |
|                |                |                | Carrier RSSI ± |
|                |                |                | uncertainty of |
|                |                |                | RXLEV setting  |
|                |                |                | shall be below |
|                |                |                | --80 dBm       |
|                |                |                | (Threshold for |
|                |                |                | GSM). =\>      |
|                |                |                | TT=-1 dB for   |
|                |                |                | RXLEV          |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.5 Combined |                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
| Inter          |                |                |                |
| frequency and  |                |                |                |
| GSM            |                |                |                |
| measurements   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.5.1        | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  | [During T0 to  |
| Correct        | T5             | T5             | T5             |
| reporting of   | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
| neighbours in  |                |                |                |
| AWGN           | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| condition      | Cell 1 and     | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | Cell 2:        |                | TT             |
|                |                | +0.80 dB       |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |                | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -10 dB       | +0.80 dB       | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PCCPCH\_Ec/Ior | +0.80 dB       | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | = -12 dB       |                | TT             |
|                |                | [During T4 and |                |
|                | SCH\_Ec/Ior =  | T5             | Ec/Ior ratio + |
|                | -12 dB         | :]{.underline} | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | PICH\_Ec/Ior = | \+ 1 dB for    | During T4 and  |
|                | -15 dB         | RXLEV          | T5             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | During T4 to   |                | RXLEV + TT     |
|                | T5:            |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | RXLEV=-75 dBm  |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.6.1        | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     | [UTRA cell     |
| Correct        | during         | during         | during         |
| reporting of   | T1             | T1             | T1             |
| E-UTRAN FDD    | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
| neighbour in   |                |                |                |
| fading         | I~oc~:         | 0dB            | I~oc~:         |
| propagation    | -70            |                | -70            |
| condition      | .00dBm/3.84MHz | 0dB            | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: | 0dB            | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | 0dB            |                | 0dB            |
|                |                | [E-UTRA cell   |                |
|                | CPIC           | during         | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: | T1             | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -13.00dB       | :]{.underline} | -13.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   | -0.8dB         | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T1             | 0dB            | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                | [UTRA cell     |                |
|                | []{.underline} | during         | []{.underline} |
|                |                | T2             |                |
|                | N~oc~:         | :]{.underline} | N~oc~:         |
|                | -1             |                | -1             |
|                | 00.00dBm/15kHz | 0dB            | 00.80dBm/15kHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    | 0dB            | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | -infinity dB   |                | -infinity dB   |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | [UTRA cell     |                | [UTRA cell     |
|                | during         | [E-UTRA cell   | during         |
|                | T2             | during         | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | T2             | :]{.underline} |
|                |                | :]{.underline} |                |
|                | I~oc~:         |                | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            | -0.8dB         | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                | 1.0dB          |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | 0dB            | []{.underline} | 0dB            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPIC           | [UTRA cell     | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: | during         | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -13.00dB       | T3             | -13.00dB       |
|                |                | :]{.underline} |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   |                | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | during         | 0dB            | during         |
|                | T2             |                | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} | 0dB            | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | 0dB            | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | N~oc~:         | [E-UTRA cell   | N~oc~:         |
|                | -1             | during         | -1             |
|                | 00.00dBm/15kHz | T3             | 00.80dBm/15kHz |
|                |                | :]{.underline} |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | 16.00 dB       | -0.8dB         | 17.0dB         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [UTRA cell     | 0.6dB          | []{.underline} |
|                | during         |                |                |
|                | T3             |                | [UTRA cell     |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | during         |
|                |                |                | T3             |
|                | I~oc~:         |                | :]{.underline} |
|                | -70            |                |                |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |                | I~oc~:         |
|                |                |                | -70            |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                | 0dB            |                |                |
|                |                |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | CPIC           |                | 0dB            |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |                |                |
|                | -13.00dB       |                | CPIC           |
|                |                |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | [E-UTRA cell   |                | -13.00dB       |
|                | during         |                |                |
|                | T3             |                | [E-UTRA cell   |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | during         |
|                |                |                | T3             |
|                | []{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | N~oc~:         |                | []{.underline} |
|                | -1             |                |                |
|                | 00.00dBm/15kHz |                | N~oc~:         |
|                |                |                | -1             |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | 00.80dBm/15kHz |
|                | -4.00 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                |                |                | -3.4dB         |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.6.2        | Same as        | Same as        | Same as        |
| Correct        | 8.6.6.1        | 8.6.6.1        | 8.6.6.1        |
| reporting of   |                |                |                |
| E-UTRAN TDD    |                |                |                |
| neighbour in   |                |                |                |
| fading         |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| condition      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.7.1        | [UTRA cell 1   | [UTRA cell 1   | [UTRA cell 1   |
| Correct        | during T1 and  | during T1 and  | during T1 and  |
| reporting of   | T2             | T2             | T2             |
| E-UTRA FDD     | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
| neighbours in  |                |                |                |
| fading         | []{.underline} | 0dB            | []{.underline} |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| condition      | I~oc~:         | 0dB            | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            |                | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz | 0dB            | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: | [UTRA cell 2   | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | 0dB            | during         | 0dB            |
|                |                | T1             |                |
|                | CPIC           | :]{.underline} | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       | 0dB            | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [UTRA cell 2   | 0dB            | [UTRA cell 2   |
|                | during T1      |                | during T1      |
|                | :]{.underline} | 0dB            | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | []{.underline} | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~oc~:         | [E-UTRA cell 3 | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            | during         | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz | T1             | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                | :]{.underline} |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | -Infinity dB   | 0dB            | -Infinity dB   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPIC           | 0dB            | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | \--Infinity dB | [UTRA cell 2   | \--Infinity dB |
|                |                | during         |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell 3 | T2             | [E-UTRA cell 3 |
|                | during         | :]{.underline} | during         |
|                | T1             |                | T1             |
|                | :]{.underline} | 0dB            | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} | 0.7dB          | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | N~oc~:         | 0dB            | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              |                | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz | [E-UTRA cell 3 | 98.00dBm/15kHz |
|                |                | during         |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    | T2             | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | -infinity dB   | :]{.underline} | -infinity dB   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [UTRA cell 2   | 0dB            | [UTRA cell 2   |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T2             | 0dB            | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} |                | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~oc~:         |                | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            |                | -70            |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |                | .00dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |                | I~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | -1.8dB         |                | -1.1dB         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPIC           |                | CPIC           |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | -10.00dB       |                | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [E-UTRA cell 3 |                | [E-UTRA cell 3 |
|                | during         |                | during         |
|                | T2             |                | T2             |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} |                | []{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | N~oc~:         |                | N~oc~:         |
|                | -              |                | -              |
|                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |                | 98.00dBm/15kHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | 13.00 dB       |                | 13.00 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | []{.underline} |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.6.7.2        | [Same as       | Same as        | Same as        |
| Correct        | 8.6.7.         | 8.6.7.1        | 8.6.7.1        |
| reporting of   | 1]{.underline} |                |                |
| E-UTRA TDD     |                |                |                |
| neighbours in  |                |                |                |
| fading         |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| condition      |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7            |                |                |                |
| Measurements   |                |                |                |
| Performance    |                |                |                |
| Requirements   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.1 CPICH    |                |                |                |
| RSCP           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.1.1 Intra  | see table      | ±1 dB for      | Any TT applied |
| frequency      | 8.7.1.1.1.1    | Ioc±0.3 dB for | to the nominal |
| measurements   | and table      | Ior/Ioc±0.1dB  | setting shall  |
| accuracy       | 8.7.1.1.1.2    | fo             | fulfil: Test 1 |
|                |                | r.....\_Ec/Ior | (absolute and  |
|                |                |                | relative): Io  |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | above -70dBm   |
|                |                |                | Test           |
|                |                |                | 2(absolute and |
|                |                |                | relative): Io  |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | above -50 dBm  |
|                |                |                | Test 3         |
|                |                |                | (absolute and  |
|                |                |                | relative): Io  |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | below -94 dBm  |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc + TTTT |
|                |                |                | on top of UE   |
|                |                |                | measurement    |
|                |                |                | accurac        |
|                |                |                | y:Absolute±1.0 |
|                |                |                | dB for Ioc±0.3 |
|                |                |                | dB for Ior/Ioc |
|                |                |                | ±0.1dB for     |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | ∑              |
|                |                |                | 1.4            |
|                |                |                | dBRelative±0.3 |
|                |                |                | dB for Ior/Ioc |
|                |                |                | (cell1)±0.3 dB |
|                |                |                | for Ior/Ioc    |
|                |                |                | (cell2)±0.1dB  |
|                |                |                | for            |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | (cell1)±0.1dB  |
|                |                |                | for            |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | (cell2)∑ 0.8dB |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.1.2 Inter  | See table      | ±1 dB for      | Any TT applied |
| frequency      | 8.7.1.2.1.1    | Ioc±0.3 dB for | to the nominal |
| measurement    | and table      | Ioc1/Ioc2±0.3  | setting shall  |
| accuracy       | 8.7.1.2.1.2    | dB             | fulfil: Test   |
|                |                |                | 1: Io shall    |
|                |                | for            | not go above   |
|                |                | Ior/Ioc±0.1dB  | -50 dBm Test   |
|                |                | for            | 2: Io shall    |
|                |                | .....\_Ec/Ior  | not go below   |
|                |                |                | -94 dBm        |
|                |                | For multi-band | Ior/Ioc + TT   |
|                |                | UE with Band I |                |
|                |                | and VI         | TT on top of   |
|                |                |                | UE measurement |
|                |                | 0.5 dB for     | accuracy:      |
|                |                | Ioc1/Ioc2      |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ioc1/Ioc2      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc        |
|                |                |                | (cell1)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc        |
|                |                |                | (cell2)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.1dB for     |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | (cell1)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.1dB for     |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | (cell2)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ∑ 1.1 dB       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.2 CPICH    |                |                |                |
| Ec/Io          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.2.1 Intra  | table          | ±1 dB for Ioc  | Any TT applied |
| frequency      | 8.7.2.1.1.1    |                | to the nominal |
| measurements   | and            | ±0.3 dB for    | setting shall  |
| accuracy       |                | Ior/Ioc        | fulfil:        |
|                | table          |                |                |
|                | 8.7.2.1.1.2    | ±0.1dB         | Test           |
|                |                |                | 1(absolute and |
|                |                | for            | relative): Io  |
|                |                | .....\_Ec/Ior  | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | above -50 dBm  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 2         |
|                |                |                | (absolute and  |
|                |                |                | relative): Io  |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | below -87dBm   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 3         |
|                |                |                | (absolute and  |
|                |                |                | relative): Io  |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | below -94 dBm  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | CPICH Ec/Io    |
|                |                |                | shall stay in  |
|                |                |                | the UE         |
|                |                |                | accuracy       |
|                |                |                | ranges         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | TT on top of   |
|                |                |                | UE measurement |
|                |                |                | accuracy:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Absolute       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.1dB for     |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ∑ 0.4dB        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Relative       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ioc1=Ioc2      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc        |
|                |                |                | (cell1)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc        |
|                |                |                | (cell2)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.1dB for     |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | (cell1)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.1dB for     |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | (cell2)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ∑ 0.8dB        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.2.2 Inter  | table          | ±1 dB for Ioc  | Any TT applied |
| frequency      | 8.7.2.2.2.1    |                | to the nominal |
| measurement    | and            | ±0.3 dB for    | setting shall  |
| accuracy       |                | Ioc1/Ioc2      | fulfil:        |
|                | table          |                |                |
|                | 8.7.2.2.2.2    | ±0.3 dB for    | Test 1: Io     |
|                |                | Ior/Ioc        | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | above -50 dBm  |
|                |                | ±0.1dB         |                |
|                |                |                | Test 2: Io     |
|                |                | for            | shall not go   |
|                |                | .....\_Ec/Ior  | below -87 dBm  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                | For multi-band | Test 3: Io     |
|                |                | UE with Band I | shall not go   |
|                |                | and VI         | below -94 dBm  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                | 0.5 dB for     | Ior/Ioc + TT   |
|                |                | Ioc1/Ioc2      |                |
|                |                |                | TT on top of   |
|                |                |                | UE measurement |
|                |                |                | accuracy:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ioc1=Ioc2.     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc        |
|                |                |                | (cell1)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc        |
|                |                |                | (cell2)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.1dB for     |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | (cell1)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.1dB for     |
|                |                |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior  |
|                |                |                | (cell2)        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ∑ 0.8 dB       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.3.1 UTRA   | Table          | ±1 dB for Ioc  | Any TT applied |
| Carrier RSSI,  | 8.7.3.1.2      |                | to the nominal |
| absolute       |                | ±0.3 dB for    | setting shall  |
| measurement    |                | Ioc1/Ioc2      | fulfil:        |
| accuracy       |                |                |                |
|                |                | ±0.3 dB for    | Test 1: Io     |
|                |                | Îor/Ioc        | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | above -50 dBm  |
|                |                | For multi-band |                |
|                |                | UE with Band I | Test 2: Io     |
|                |                | and VI         | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | below -69 dBm  |
|                |                | 0.5 dB for     |                |
|                |                | Ioc1/Ioc2      | Test 3: Io     |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | below -94 dBm  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | TT on top of   |
|                |                |                | UE measurement |
|                |                |                | accuracy:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 1:        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Max TT=        |
|                |                |                | Io~max~ --     |
|                |                |                | Io~nominal~    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io~nominal~ =  |
|                |                |                | -51.15 dBm     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io~max~ =      |
|                |                |                | Ioc~max~       |
|                |                |                | +Ior~max~ =    |
|                |                |                | (-53.5 dBm +   |
|                |                |                | 1dB) + (-52.5  |
|                |                |                | dBm -- 1.45 dB |
|                |                |                | + 0.3 dB) =    |
|                |                |                | -50.0 dBm      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | =\> Max TT =   |
|                |                |                | 1.15 dB        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Min TT =       |
|                |                |                | Io~min~ - Io   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io~min~ =      |
|                |                |                | Ioc~min~ +     |
|                |                |                | Ior~min~ =     |
|                |                |                | (-53.5 dBm --1 |
|                |                |                | dB) + (-54.5   |
|                |                |                | dBm -- 1.45 dB |
|                |                |                | -- 0.3 dB) = - |
|                |                |                | 52.3 dBm       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | =\> Min TT =   |
|                |                |                | -1.15 dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 2:        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Max TT=        |
|                |                |                | Io~max~ --     |
|                |                |                | Io~nominal~    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io~nominal~ =  |
|                |                |                | - 67.9 dBm     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io~max~ =      |
|                |                |                | Ioc~max~ +     |
|                |                |                | Ior~max~ =     |
|                |                |                | (-69.27 dBm +  |
|                |                |                | 1dB) + (-68.27 |
|                |                |                | dBm -- 4.4 dB  |
|                |                |                | + 0.3 dB) =    |
|                |                |                | -66.8 dBm      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | =\> Max TT =   |
|                |                |                | 1.1 dB         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Min TT =       |
|                |                |                | Io~min~ - Io   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io~min~ =      |
|                |                |                | Ioc~min~ +     |
|                |                |                | Ior~min~ =     |
|                |                |                | (-69.27 dBm -- |
|                |                |                | 1 dB) +        |
|                |                |                | (-70.27 dBm -- |
|                |                |                | 4.4 dB -- 0.3  |
|                |                |                | dB) = -69.0    |
|                |                |                | dBm            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | =\> Min TT =   |
|                |                |                | -1.1 dB        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 3 (Band   |
|                |                |                | I):            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Max TT=        |
|                |                |                | Io~max~ --     |
|                |                |                | Io~nominal~    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io~nominal~ =  |
|                |                |                | -93 dBm        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io~max~ =      |
|                |                |                | Ioc~max~ +     |
|                |                |                | Ior~max~ + No  |
|                |                |                | = (-93.46 dBm  |
|                |                |                | + 1dB) +       |
|                |                |                | (-92.46 dBm -- |
|                |                |                | 9.24 dB +0.3   |
|                |                |                | dB) + -99 dBm  |
|                |                |                | = -91.2        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | =\> Max TT =   |
|                |                |                | 1.8 dB         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Min TT =       |
|                |                |                | Io~min~ - Io   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io~min~ =      |
|                |                |                | Ioc~min~ +     |
|                |                |                | Ior~min~ =     |
|                |                |                | (-93.46 dBm -- |
|                |                |                | 1 dB) +        |
|                |                |                | (-94.46 dBm -- |
|                |                |                | 9.24 dB -- 0.3 |
|                |                |                | dB) = -94.0    |
|                |                |                | dBm            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | =\> Min TT =   |
|                |                |                | -1.0 dB        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | The same TT    |
|                |                |                | for all bands  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.3.2 UTRA   | Table          | ±1 dB for Ioc  | Any TT applied |
| Carrier RSSI,  | 8.7.3.2.1A     |                | to the nominal |
| relative       |                | ±0.3 dB for    | setting shall  |
| measurement    |                | Ioc2/Ioc3      | fulfil:        |
| accuracy       |                |                |                |
|                |                | ±0.3 dB for    | Test 1: Io     |
|                |                | Îor/Ioc        | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | above -50 dBm. |
|                |                |                | Io3-Io2 shall  |
|                |                |                | not go below   |
|                |                |                | -20 dB.        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 2: Io     |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | below -91 dBm. |
|                |                |                | Io3-Io2 shall  |
|                |                |                | not go above   |
|                |                |                | 20 dB          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 3: Io     |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | below -94 dBm  |
|                |                |                | (Band I).      |
|                |                |                | Io3-Io2 shall  |
|                |                |                | not go above   |
|                |                |                | 20 dB.         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ior/Ioc + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | TT on top of   |
|                |                |                | UE measurement |
|                |                |                | accuracy:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 1:        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ioc3/Ioc2      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior2/Ioc2      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior3/Ioc3      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ∑±0.9 dB (This |
|                |                |                | is the worst   |
|                |                |                | case since G   |
|                |                |                | factor makes   |
|                |                |                | the actual     |
|                |                |                | tolerance      |
|                |                |                | lower.         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | No impact from |
|                |                |                | Noise Floor.   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | The same TT    |
|                |                |                | for all bands. |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 2:        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ioc3/Ioc2      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior2/Ioc2      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior3/Ioc3      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ∑±0.9 dB (This |
|                |                |                | is the worst   |
|                |                |                | case since G   |
|                |                |                | factor makes   |
|                |                |                | the actual     |
|                |                |                | tolerance      |
|                |                |                | lower).        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Noise floor    |
|                |                |                | impact:        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Noise floor =  |
|                |                |                | -96 dB for     |
|                |                |                | Band III,      |
|                |                |                | VIII, and      |
|                |                |                | VIII, XII,     |
|                |                |                | XIII, XIV and  |
|                |                |                | XX (worst      |
|                |                |                | case). =\> Io2 |
|                |                |                | increases by   |
|                |                |                | 1.0 dB, Io3    |
|                |                |                | increases by   |
|                |                |                | 0.1 dB. Thus   |
|                |                |                | noise floor    |
|                |                |                | increases the  |
|                |                |                | test tolerance |
|                |                |                | by 0.9 dB      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | =\> TT = ±1.8  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | The same TT    |
|                |                |                | for all bands. |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 3:        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ioc3/Ioc2      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior2/Ioc2      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ±0.3 dB for    |
|                |                |                | Ior3/Ioc3      |
|                |                |                | ratio          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ∑±0.9 dB (This |
|                |                |                | is the worst   |
|                |                |                | case since G   |
|                |                |                | factor makes   |
|                |                |                | the actual     |
|                |                |                | tolerance      |
|                |                |                | lower).        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Noise floor    |
|                |                |                | impact (Band   |
|                |                |                | I):            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Noise floor =  |
|                |                |                | -99 dB. =\>    |
|                |                |                | Io2 increases  |
|                |                |                | by 1.0 dB. No  |
|                |                |                | impact to Io3. |
|                |                |                | Thus noise     |
|                |                |                | floor          |
|                |                |                | increases the  |
|                |                |                | test tolerance |
|                |                |                | by 1.0 dB      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | =\> TT = ±1.9  |
|                |                |                | dB             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | The same TT    |
|                |                |                | for all bands. |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.3A GSM     | WCDMA cell     | TT for test    | WCDMA: Test    |
| Carrier RSSI   | parameters:    | parameters     | parameter      |
|                | See table      |                | settings are   |
|                | 8.7.3A.2       | GSM cell       | unchanged      |
|                |                | levels:        | since level    |
|                | GSM cell       |                | settings in    |
|                | parameters:    | Step 1: -1 dB  | either         |
|                | See table      |                | direction are  |
|                | 8.7.3A.3       | Step 2: -1 dB  | not critical   |
|                |                |                | with respect   |
|                |                | Step 3: -1 dB  | to the outcome |
|                |                |                | of the test    |
|                |                | Step 4:+1 dB   |                |
|                |                |                | GSM: Test      |
|                |                | TT for test    | parameter      |
|                |                | requirements:  | settings are   |
|                |                |                | changed in     |
|                |                | Relative       | steps 1,2,3    |
|                |                | accuracy       | and 4 as       |
|                |                | requirements:  | follows: BCCH  |
|                |                | a, b, c and d  | levels are     |
|                |                | values in      | increased by   |
|                |                | minimum        | test tolerance |
|                |                | requirements   | so that during |
|                |                | are increased  |                |
|                |                | by 2 dB i.e.,  | Step 1, level  |
|                |                |                | ≤ 38 dBm,      |
|                |                | For x1 ≥ s+14, |                |
|                |                | x2\< -48 dBm:  | Step 2, level  |
|                |                |                | ≤ 48 dBm,      |
|                |                | a=4, b=4, c=6, |                |
|                |                | d=6            | Step 3, level  |
|                |                |                | ≤ 70 dBm,      |
|                |                | For s+14 \> x1 |                |
|                |                | ≥ s+1          | Step 4, level  |
|                |                |                | ≥ -110 dBm.    |
|                |                | a=5, b=4, c=7, |                |
|                |                | d=6            | Hence during   |
|                |                |                | steps 1,2,3    |
|                |                | For s+1 \> x1  | and 4:         |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                | a=6, b=4, c=8, | New            |
|                |                | d=6            | l              |
|                |                |                | evels=Original |
|                |                | Absolute       | levels + TT    |
|                |                | accuracy       |                |
|                |                | requirements:  | For other      |
|                |                | original       | steps 5 to 12  |
|                |                | minimum        | GSM test       |
|                |                | requirements   | parameter      |
|                |                | are increased  | settings are   |
|                |                | by ±1 dB       | unchanged      |
|                |                |                | since level    |
|                |                |                | settings in    |
|                |                |                | either         |
|                |                |                | direction are  |
|                |                |                | not critical   |
|                |                |                | with respect   |
|                |                |                | to the outcome |
|                |                |                | of the test    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | TT on top of   |
|                |                |                | UE measurement |
|                |                |                | accuracy:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Relative       |
|                |                |                | accuracy: Test |
|                |                |                | system         |
|                |                |                | uncertainty    |
|                |                |                | ±1.4 dB.       |
|                |                |                | Rounded to ±2  |
|                |                |                | dB due to      |
|                |                |                | granularity of |
|                |                |                | GSM Carrier    |
|                |                |                | RSSI report    |
|                |                |                | mapping of 1   |
|                |                |                | dB.            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Absolute       |
|                |                |                | accuracy: Test |
|                |                |                | system         |
|                |                |                | uncertainty    |
|                |                |                | ±1.0 dB. No    |
|                |                |                | need to        |
|                |                |                | increase due   |
|                |                |                | to granularity |
|                |                |                | of GSM Carrier |
|                |                |                | RSSI report    |
|                |                |                | mapping of 1   |
|                |                |                | dB.            |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.3B         | TBD            |                |                |
| Transport      |                |                |                |
| channel BLER   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.3C UE      | Accuracy upper | 0.7 dB         | Formula: Upper |
| Transmitted    | limit          |                | accuracy limit |
| power (R99 and |                |                | + TT\          |
| Rel-4 only)    | Accuracy lower |                | Lower accuracy |
|                | limit          |                | limit -- TT    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Depends on     |                | Add and        |
|                | PUEMAX see     |                | subtract TT to |
|                | table          |                | all the values |
|                | 8.7.3C.2.1     |                | in table       |
|                |                |                | 8.7.3C.2.1.    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.3D UE      | Accuracy upper | 0.7 dB         | Formula: Upper |
| Transmitted    | limit          |                | accuracy limit |
| power (Rel-5   |                |                | + TT\          |
| and later)     | Accuracy lower |                | Lower accuracy |
|                | limit          |                | limit -- TT    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Add and        |
|                |                |                | subtract TT to |
|                |                |                | all the        |
|                |                |                | accuracy       |
|                |                |                | values in      |
|                |                |                | table          |
|                |                |                | 8.7.3D.4.3.    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.4 SFN-CFN  | T able         | ±1.0 dB for    | Intra and      |
| observed time  | 8.7.4.1.2 and  | Ioc            | inter          |
| difference     | Table          |                | frequency      |
|                | 8.7.4.2.2      | ±0.3 dB for    | case:          |
|                |                | Ior/Ioc        |                |
|                |                |                | Test 1: Io     |
|                |                | ±0.5 chips for | shall not go   |
|                |                | the actual     | above -50 dBm  |
|                |                | SFN-CFN        |                |
|                |                | observed time  | Test 2: No     |
|                |                | difference     | restrictions   |
|                |                |                | on Io value    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 3: Io     |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | below -94 dBm  |
|                |                |                | (Band 1, IV,   |
|                |                |                | VI, X), or     |
|                |                |                | below -93 dBm  |
|                |                |                | (Band IX), or  |
|                |                |                | below --92 dBm |
|                |                |                | (Band II, V,   |
|                |                |                | VII, XI) or    |
|                |                |                | below --91 dBm |
|                |                |                | (Band III,     |
|                |                |                | VIII, XII,     |
|                |                |                | XIII, XIV, XX) |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Îor/Ioc + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | TT on top of   |
|                |                |                | UE             |
|                |                |                | measurements   |
|                |                |                | accuracy:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | > SFN-CFN      |
|                |                |                | > observed     |
|                |                |                | > time         |
|                |                |                | > difference:  |
|                |                |                | > 1.0 chips +  |
|                |                |                | > TT           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.5.1        | T able         | ±1.0 dB for    | Test 1: Io     |
| SFN-SFN        | 8.7.5.1.2      | Ioc            | shall not go   |
| observed time  |                |                | above -50 dBm  |
| difference     |                | ±0.3 dB for    |                |
| type 1         |                | Ior/Ioc        | Test 2: No     |
|                |                |                | restrictions   |
|                |                | ±0.5 chips for | on Io value    |
|                |                | the actual     |                |
|                |                | SFN-SFN        | Test 3: Io     |
|                |                | observed time  | shall not go   |
|                |                | difference     | below -94 dBm  |
|                |                |                | (Band 1, IV,   |
|                |                |                | VI, X), or     |
|                |                |                | below -93 dBm  |
|                |                |                | (Band IX), or  |
|                |                |                | below --92 dBm |
|                |                |                | (Band II, V,   |
|                |                |                | VII, XI) or    |
|                |                |                | below --91 dBm |
|                |                |                | (Band III,     |
|                |                |                | VIII, XII,     |
|                |                |                | XIII, XIV, XX) |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Îor/Ioc + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | TT on top of   |
|                |                |                | UE             |
|                |                |                | measurements   |
|                |                |                | accuracy:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | SFN-SFN        |
|                |                |                | observed time  |
|                |                |                | difference:    |
|                |                |                | 1.0 chips + TT |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.6.1 UE     | *Io --10.9 dB  | 1 dB for Ioc   | Test 1: Io =   |
| Rx-Tx time     | = Ioc,*        |                | -92.7 dBm,     |
| difference     |                | 0.3 dB for     |                |
| (Release 5 and | Test 1: Io =   | Ior/Ioc        | Ioc = ‑103.6   |
| earlier)       | -94 dBm        |                | dBm            |
|                |                | 0.5 chip for   |                |
|                | Test2 : Io =   | timing         | Formula:       |
|                | -72dBm         | accuracy       |                |
|                |                |                | Io             |
|                | Test3 : Io =   |                | c\*(1-TT~Ioc~+ |
|                | -50dBm         |                | (Ior/Ioc       |
|                |                |                | -TT~Ior/Ioc~)) |
|                | Timing         |                | ≥              |
|                | Accuracy ± 1.5 |                |                |
|                | chip           |                | -94            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 2:        |
|                |                |                | unchanged (no  |
|                |                |                | critical RF    |
|                |                |                | parameters)    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 3: Io =   |
|                |                |                | -51.3 dBm, Ioc |
|                |                |                | = ‑62.2 dBm    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formula:       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io             |
|                |                |                | c\*(1+TT~Ioc~+ |
|                |                |                | (Ior/Ioc       |
|                |                |                | +TT~Ior/Ioc~)) |
|                |                |                | ≤ -50          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Timing         |
|                |                |                | accuracy ±2.0  |
|                |                |                | chip           |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formulas:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Upper limit    |
|                |                |                | +TT            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Lower limit    |
|                |                |                | --TT           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.6.1A UE    | Table          | ±1.0 dB for    | Test 1: Io     |
| Rx-Tx time     | 8.6.7.1A.2 and | Ioc            | shall not go   |
| difference     | Table          |                | below -94 dBm  |
| (Release 6 and | 8.6.7.1A.4     | ±0.3 dB for    | (Band I, IV,   |
| later)         |                | Ior/Ioc        | VI, X), or     |
|                |                |                | below -93 dBm  |
|                |                | ±0.5 chip for  | (Band IX), or  |
|                |                | timing         | below --92 dBm |
|                |                | accuracy       | (Band II, V,   |
|                |                |                | VII, XI) or    |
|                |                |                | below --91 dBm |
|                |                |                | (Band III,     |
|                |                |                | VIII, XII,     |
|                |                |                | XIII, XIV, XX) |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formula:       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io             |
|                |                |                | c\*(1-TT~Ioc~+ |
|                |                |                | (Ior/Ioc       |
|                |                |                | -TT~Ior/Ioc~)) |
|                |                |                | ≥              |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | -94            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 2: No     |
|                |                |                | restrictions   |
|                |                |                | on Io value    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test 3: Io     |
|                |                |                | shall not go   |
|                |                |                | above -50 dBm  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formula:       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Io             |
|                |                |                | c\*(1+TT~Ioc~+ |
|                |                |                | (Ior/Ioc       |
|                |                |                | +TT~Ior/Ioc~)) |
|                |                |                | ≤ -50          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Timing         |
|                |                |                | accuracy ±2.0  |
|                |                |                | chip           |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formulas:      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Upper limit    |
|                |                |                | +TT            |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Lower limit    |
|                |                |                | --TT           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.7 Observed | TBD            |                |                |
| time           |                |                |                |
| difference to  |                |                |                |
| GSM cell       |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.8 P-CCPCH  | TBD            |                |                |
| RSCP           |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.9 UE       | UPH reporting  | 0.8 dB for UPH | Formula:       |
| Transmission   | accuracy from  | reporting      |                |
| Power Headroom | ±2 dB to ±6    | accuracy       | (Upper)        |
|                | dB, depending  |                | Minimum        |
|                | on UE power    |                | Requirement +  |
|                | class and      |                | TT\            |
|                | total UE       |                | (Lower)        |
|                | output power.  |                | Minimum        |
|                |                |                | Requirement -- |
|                |                |                | TT             |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | UPH reporting  |
|                |                |                | accuracy from  |
|                |                |                | ±2.8 dB to     |
|                |                |                | ±6.8 dB,       |
|                |                |                | depending on   |
|                |                |                | UE power class |
|                |                |                | and total UE   |
|                |                |                | output power.  |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.10 E-UTRAN | [Test          | [Test          | [Test          |
| FDD RSRP       | 1              | 1              | 1              |
| absolute       | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
| accuracy       |                |                |                |
|                | UTRA Cell 1    | []{.underline} | UTRA Cell 1    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | I~oc~:         | 0dB            | I~oc~:         |
|                | -70            |                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |
|                | .00dBm/3.84MHz | 0dB            |                |
|                |                |                | Î~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | Î~or~ / I~oc~: | 0dB            | -1.00dB        |
|                | -1.00dB        |                |                |
|                |                | -0.60dB        | CPIC           |
|                | CPIC           |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: | 0dB            | -10.00dB       |
|                | -10.00dB       |                |                |
|                |                | Via mapping    | E-UTRA Cell 2  |
|                | E-UTRA Cell 2  |                |                |
|                |                | [Test          | N~oc~:         |
|                | N~oc~:         | 2              | -89.25dBm      |
|                | -88.65dBm      | :]{.underline} | /15kHz         |
|                | /15kHz         |                |                |
|                |                | []{.underline} | Ê~S~ / N~oc~:  |
|                | Ê~S~ / N~oc~:  |                | +10dB          |
|                | +10dB          | 0dB            |                |
|                |                |                | RSRP\_52 to    |
|                | Reported RSRP  | 0dB            | RSRP\_71       |
|                | values: ±8dB   |                |                |
|                |                | 0dB            | [Test          |
|                | [Test          |                | 2              |
|                | 2              | 0dB            | :]{.underline} |
|                | :]{.underline} |                |                |
|                |                | +0.80dB        | UTRA Cell 1    |
|                | UTRA Cell 1    |                |                |
|                |                | Via mapping    | I~oc~:         |
|                | I~oc~:         |                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |
|                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |                |                |
|                |                |                | Î~or~ / I~oc~: |
|                | Î~or~ / I~oc~: |                | -1.00dB        |
|                | -1.00dB        |                |                |
|                |                |                | CPIC           |
|                | CPIC           |                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |
|                | H\_E~c~/I~or~: |                | -10.00dB       |
|                | -10.00dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                | E-UTRA Cell 2  |
|                | E-UTRA Cell 2  |                |                |
|                |                |                | N~oc~: -117dBm |
|                | N~oc~: -117dBm |                | or -115dBm or  |
|                | or -115dBm or  |                | -113.5 or      |
|                | -113.5 or      |                | -115.5dBm or   |
|                | -115.5dBm or   |                | -114dBm or     |
|                | -114dBm or     |                | -116dBm /15kHz |
|                | -116dBm /15kHz |                | depending on   |
|                | depending on   |                | operating band |
|                | operating band |                |                |
|                |                |                | Ês / N~oc~:    |
|                | Ês / N~oc~:    |                | -3.20dB        |
|                | -4.00dB        |                |                |
|                |                |                | RSRP\_13 to    |
|                | Reported RSRP  |                | RSRP\_28       |
|                | values: ±6dB   |                |                |
|                |                |                | RSRP\_15 to    |
|                |                |                | RSRP\_30       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | RSRP\_16 to    |
|                |                |                | RSRP\_31       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | RSRP\_14 to    |
|                |                |                | RSRP\_29       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | depending on   |
|                |                |                | operating band |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | The derivation |                |                |
|                | of the RSRP    |                |                |
|                | values takes   |                |                |
|                | into account   |                |                |
|                | the            |                |                |
|                | uncertainty in |                |                |
|                | Cell 2 RSRP    |                |                |
|                | from N~oc~ and |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~,    |                |                |
|                | the allowed UE |                |                |
|                | reporting      |                |                |
|                | accuracy, and  |                |                |
|                | the UE mapping |                |                |
|                | function.      |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | The RSRP       |                |                |
|                | values given   |                |                |
|                | above are for  |                |                |
|                | normal         |                |                |
|                | conditions. In |                |                |
|                | all cases the  |                |                |
|                | RSRP values    |                |                |
|                | are 3dB wider  |                |                |
|                | at each end    |                |                |
|                | for extreme    |                |                |
|                | conditions.    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.11 E-UTRAN | Same as 8.7.10 | Same as 8.7.10 | Same as 8.7.10 |
| TDD RSRP       |                |                |                |
| absolute       |                |                |                |
| accuracy       |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.12 E-UTRAN | [Test          | [Test          | [Test          |
| FDD RSRQ       | 1              | 1              | 1              |
| absolute       | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} | :]{.underline} |
| accuracy       |                |                |                |
|                | UTRA Cell 1    | []{.underline} | UTRA Cell 1    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ioc:           | 0dB            | Ioc:           |
|                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | Îor /Ioc:      |                | Îor/Ioc:       |
|                | -1.00dB        | 0dB            | -1.00dB        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior: | -1.10dB        | CPICH\_Ec/Ior: |
|                | -10.00dB       |                | -10.00dB       |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | E-UTRA Cell 2  |                | E-UTRA Cell 2  |
|                |                | Via mapping    |                |
|                | Noc: -80.00dBm |                | Noc: -81.10dBm |
|                | /15kHz         | [Test          | /15kHz         |
|                |                | 2              |                |
|                | ÊS/Noc:        | :]{.underline} | ÊS/Noc:        |
|                | -1.75dB        |                | -1.75dB        |
|                |                | []{.underline} |                |
|                | Reported RSRQ  |                | RSRQ\_04 to    |
|                | values: ±2.5dB | 0dB            | RSRQ\_16       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [Test          | 0dB            | [Test          |
|                | 2              |                | 2              |
|                | :]{.underline} | 0dB            | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | UTRA Cell 1    | 0dB            | UTRA Cell 1    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ioc:           | +0.80dB        | Ioc:           |
|                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                | Via mapping    |                |
|                | Îor/Ioc:       |                | Îor/Ioc:       |
|                | -1.00dB        | [Test          | -1.00dB        |
|                |                | 3              |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior: | :]{.underline} | CPICH\_Ec/Ior: |
|                | -10.00dB       |                | -10.00dB       |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | E-UTRA Cell 2  |                | E-UTRA Cell 2  |
|                |                | 0dB            |                |
|                | Noc:           |                | Noc:           |
|                | -104.70dBm     | 0dB            | -104.70dBm     |
|                | /15kHz         |                | /15kHz         |
|                |                | +0.30dB        |                |
|                | Ês / Noc:      |                | Ês / Noc:      |
|                | -4.00dB        | +0.80dB        | -3.20dB        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Reported RSRQ  | Via mapping    | RSRQ\_00 to    |
|                | values: ±3.5dB |                | RSRQ\_16       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | [Test          |                | [Test          |
|                | 3              |                | 3              |
|                | :]{.underline} |                | :]{.underline} |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | UTRA Cell 1    |                | UTRA Cell 1    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Ioc:           |                | Ioc:           |
|                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |                | -70dBm/3.84MHz |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Îor/Ioc:       |                | Îor/Ioc:       |
|                | -1.00dB        |                | -1.00dB        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior: |                | CPICH\_Ec/Ior: |
|                | -10.00dB       |                | -10.00dB       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | E-UTRA Cell 2  |                | E-UTRA Cell 2  |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Noc: -119.5dBm |                | Noc: -119.2dBm |
|                | or -118.5dBm   |                | or -118.2dBm   |
|                | or -118dBm or  |                | or -117.7dBm   |
|                | -117.5 or      |                | or -117.2 or   |
|                | -116.5dBm or   |                | -116.2dBm or   |
|                | -116dBm /15kHz |                | -115.7dBm      |
|                | depending on   |                | /15kHz         |
|                | operating band |                | depending on   |
|                |                |                | operating band |
|                | Ês/Noc:        |                |                |
|                | -4.00dB        |                | Ês/Noc:        |
|                |                |                | -3.20dB        |
|                | Reported RSRP  |                |                |
|                | values: ±3.5dB |                | RSRQ\_00 to    |
|                |                |                | RSRQ\_16       |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
|                | The derivation |                |                |
|                | of the RSRQ    |                |                |
|                | values takes   |                |                |
|                | into account   |                |                |
|                | the            |                |                |
|                | uncertainty in |                |                |
|                | Cell 2 RSRQ    |                |                |
|                | from N~oc~ and |                |                |
|                | Ês / N~oc~,    |                |                |
|                | the allowed UE |                |                |
|                | reporting      |                |                |
|                | accuracy, and  |                |                |
|                | the UE mapping |                |                |
|                | function.      |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | The RSRQ       |                |                |
|                | values given   |                |                |
|                | above are for  |                |                |
|                | normal         |                |                |
|                | conditions. In |                |                |
|                | Test 1 the     |                |                |
|                | RSRQ values    |                |                |
|                | are 1.5dB      |                |                |
|                | wider at each  |                |                |
|                | end and in     |                |                |
|                | Test 2 and 3   |                |                |
|                | the RSRQ       |                |                |
|                | values are     |                |                |
|                | 0.5dB wider at |                |                |
|                | each end for   |                |                |
|                | extreme        |                |                |
|                | conditions.    |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 8.7.13 E-UTRAN | Same as 8.7.12 | Same as 8.7.12 | Same as 8.7.12 |
| TDD RSRQ       |                |                |                |
| absolute       |                |                |                |
| accuracy       |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

F.4.5 Performance requirements (HSDPA)
--------------------------------------

Table F.4.5: Derivation of Test Requirements (Performance tests HSDPA)

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Test           | Minimum        | Test           | Test           |
|                | Requirement in | Tolerance\     | Requirement in |
|                | TS 25.101      | (TT)           | TS 34.121      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.1A to      | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| 9.2.1KD Single | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Link           | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| Performance    | -12, -9, -6,   | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
|                | -3 and -2 dB   | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | $              |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | Test           | $              |
|                | = 0, 5, 10, 15 | Tolerances     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | and 18 dB      | apply for each | unchanged      |
|                |                | carrier        |                |
|                | Minimum        |                | Test           |
|                | requirements   |                | requirements   |
|                | apply for each |                | apply for each |
|                | carrier        |                | carrier        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.1L to      | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| 9.2.1LD Single | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Link Enhanced  | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| Performance    | -6 and -3 dB   | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| Type 3i        |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 0.76 dB for    | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}}     | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | _{\text{or}}/I | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | _{\text{or}}/I | _{\text{oc}}'$ | = ratio +      |
|                | _{\text{oc}}'$ |                | 1.2dB          |
|                | = 0 dB         | 0.17 dB for    |                |
|                |                | DIP1, DIP2     | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | DIP1 = -2.75   |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                | dB             | Test           | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | Tolerances     | = ratio +      |
|                | DIP2 = -7.64   | apply for each | 0.6dB          |
|                | dB             | carrier        |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | Minimum        |                | _{\text{or}3}/ |
|                | requirements   |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | apply for each |                | = ratio +      |
|                | carrier        |                | 0.6dB          |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | This has the   |
|                |                |                | effect of      |
|                |                |                | increasing     |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                |                |                | by 0.76dB and  |
|                |                |                | increasing     |
|                |                |                | DIP1 and DIP2  |
|                |                |                | by 0.17dB.     |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | and            |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}3}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | TT is derived  |
|                |                |                | by increasing  |
|                |                |                | ratio by       |
|                |                |                | uncertainty to |
|                |                |                | ensure DIP     |
|                |                |                | values are     |
|                |                |                | maintained.    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | TT is derived  |
|                |                |                | by combined    |
|                |                |                | effect of      |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}_    |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}1}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}$, |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | and            |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}3}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | uncertainties  |
|                |                |                | in wanted      |
|                |                |                | signal,        |
|                |                |                | interferer 1   |
|                |                |                | and interferer |
|                |                |                | 2              |
|                |                |                | respectively,  |
|                |                |                | after applying |
|                |                |                | TT to          |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | and            |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}_    |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}3}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}$. |
|                |                |                | The interferer |
|                |                |                | uncertainties  |
|                |                |                | are scaled     |
|                |                |                | according to   |
|                |                |                | their effect   |
|                |                |                | on             |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                |                |                | , which is     |
|                |                |                | determined     |
|                |                |                | from the DIP   |
|                |                |                | values.        |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test           |
|                |                |                | requirements   |
|                |                |                | apply for each |
|                |                |                | carrier        |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.1M Single  | $\             | 0.73 dB for    | Formulas:      |
| Link Enhanced  | \frac{E_{c}}{I | ${\hat{I}}_    |                |
| Performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | {\text{or}1}/I | 0.1 dB         |
| Type 3i        | -3 dB          | _{\text{oc}}'$ | uncertainty in |
|                |                | for cell1 for  | Ec/Ior ratio   |
|                | $              | subtest 1,2    |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | ${\h           |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 0.78 dB for    | at{I}}_{\text{ |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}}_    | or}1}/I_{\text |
|                | ${\hat{I}}_{   | {\text{or}2}/I | {oc}}$(Serving |
|                | \text{or}1}/I_ | _{\text{oc}}'$ | cell ) = ratio |
|                | {\text{oc}}'$= | for cell2 for  | +4.9dB for     |
|                | 1.83 and 0 dB  | subtest 1,2    | sub-test 1,2   |
|                | for subtest    |                |                |
|                | 1,2 and 3,4    | 0.69 dB for    | ${\hat         |
|                | respectivily.  | ${\hat{I}}_    | {I}}_{\text{or |
|                |                | {\text{or}1}/I | }2}/I_{\text{o |
|                | ${\hat{I}}_{   | _{\text{oc}}'$ | c}}$(assisting |
|                | \text{or}2}/I_ | for cell1 for  | Serving cell ) |
|                | {\text{oc}}'$= | subtest 3,4    | = ratio +5.2   |
|                | -4.19 and      |                | dB for         |
|                | -4.42 dB for   | 0.73 dB for    | sub-test 1,2   |
|                | subtest 1,2    | ${\hat{I}}_    |                |
|                | and 3,4        | {\text{or}2}/I | ${\h           |
|                | respectivily.  | _{\text{oc}}'$ | at{I}}_{\text{ |
|                |                | for cell2 for  | or}1}/I_{\text |
|                |                | subtest 3,4    | {oc}}$(Serving |
|                |                |                | cell ) = ratio |
|                |                |                | +2.0 dB for    |
|                |                |                | sub-test 3,4   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat         |
|                |                |                | {I}}_{\text{or |
|                |                |                | }2}/I_{\text{o |
|                |                |                | c}}$(assisting |
|                |                |                | Serving cell ) |
|                |                |                | = ratio +2.2   |
|                |                |                | dB for         |
|                |                |                | sub-test 3,4   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | This has the   |
|                |                |                | effect of      |
|                |                |                | increasing the |
|                |                |                | overall        |
|                |                |                | Geometry for   |
|                |                |                | cell1 and      |
|                |                |                | cell2 for each |
|                |                |                | subtest by     |
|                |                |                | below values   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 0.73 dB for    |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}_    |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}1}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                |                |                | for cell1 for  |
|                |                |                | subtest 1,2    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 0.78 dB for    |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}_    |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}2}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                |                |                | for cell2 for  |
|                |                |                | subtest 1,2    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 0.69 dB for    |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}_    |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}1}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                |                |                | for cell1 for  |
|                |                |                | subtest 3,4    |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | 0.73 dB for    |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}_    |
|                |                |                | {\text{or}2}/I |
|                |                |                | _{\text{oc}}'$ |
|                |                |                | for cell2 for  |
|                |                |                | subtest 3,4    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.2A to      | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| 9.2.2E Open    | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| loop diversity | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| performance    | -6 and -3 dB   | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
|                |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 and 10 dB  |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.3A to      | Same as 9.2.2A | Same as 9.2.2A | Same as 9.2.2A |
| 9.2.3E Closed  |                |                |                |
| loop diversity |                |                |                |
| performance    |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.4A MIMO    | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| performance    | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
|                | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
|                | -2 dB          | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
|                |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 6 and 10 dB  |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.4B MIMO    | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| and 64QAM      | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
|                | -1.5 dB        | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
|                |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 18 dB        |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.4C MIMO    | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Performance -  | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Fixed          | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| Reference      | -2 dB          | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| Channel (FRC)  |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| H-Set 9A       | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 6 and 10 dB  |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test           |
|                |                |                | requirements   |
|                |                |                | should be      |
|                |                |                | applied for    |
|                |                |                | both the cells |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.4CA MIMO   | Same as 9.2.4C | Same as 9.2.4C | Same as 9.2.4C |
| Performance -  |                |                |                |
| Fixed          |                |                |                |
| Reference      |                |                |                |
| Channel (FRC)  |                |                |                |
| H-Set 9A for   |                |                |                |
| DB DC-HSDPA    |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.4D MIMO    | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Performance -  | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Fixed          | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| Reference      | -1.5 dB        | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| Channel (FRC)  |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| H-Set 11A      | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 18 dB        |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test           |
|                |                |                | requirements   |
|                |                |                | should be      |
|                |                |                | applied for    |
|                |                |                | both the cells |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.4DA MIMO   | Same as 9.2.4D | Same as 9.2.4D | Same as 9.2.4D |
| Performance -  |                |                |                |
| Fixed          |                |                |                |
| Reference      |                |                |                |
| Channel (FRC)  |                |                |                |
| H-Set 11A for  |                |                |                |
| DB DC-HSDPA    |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.4E MIMO    | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| performance -  | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Fixed          | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| Reference      | -2 dB          | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| Channel (FRC)  |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| H-Set 9        | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| Asymmetric     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
| CPICHs         | = -60 dBm      | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 6 and 10 dB  |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.4F MIMO    | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| performance-   | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Fixed          | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| Reference      | -1.5 dB        | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| Channel (FRC)  |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| H-Set 11       | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| Asymmetric     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
| CPICHs         | = -60 dBm      | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 18 dB        |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.4G MIMO    | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Performance -  | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Fixed          | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| Reference      | -2 dB          | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| Channel (FRC)  |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| H-set 9A       | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| Asymmetric     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
| CPICHs         | = -60 dBm      | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 6 and 10 dB  |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test           |
|                |                |                | requirements   |
|                |                |                | should be      |
|                |                |                | applied for    |
|                |                |                | both the cells |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.2.4H MIMO    | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Performance -  | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Fixed          | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| Reference      | -1.5 dB        | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| Channel (FRC)  |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| H-set 11A      | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| Asymmetric     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
| CPICHs         | = -60 dBm      | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 18 dB        |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Test           |
|                |                |                | requirements   |
|                |                |                | should be      |
|                |                |                | applied for    |
|                |                |                | both the cells |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.1 Single   |                | No test        |                |
| Link           |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| AWGN           |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| conditions     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.1A Single  |                | No test        |                |
| Link           |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| AWGN           |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| conditions,    |                |                |                |
| 64QAM          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.1B Single  |                | No test        |                |
| Link           |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| AWGN           |                |                |                |
| Propagation    |                |                |                |
| Conditions,    |                |                |                |
| DC-HSDPA       |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.1BA Single |                | No test        |                |
| Link           |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| AWGN           |                |                |                |
| Propagation    |                |                |                |
| Conditions,    |                |                |                |
| DB-DC-HSDPA    |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.1C Single  |                | No test        | 10 dB between  |
| Link           |                | tolerances     | $I_{\          |
| Performance -  |                | applied for    | text{oc}_{1}}$ |
| AWGN           |                | test step 7    | and            |
| Propagation    |                | and 8.         | $I_{\text      |
| Conditions,    |                |                | {oc}_{2}}$maps |
| Periodically   |                | TT for the     | to 6 between   |
| Varying Radio  |                | M-difference   | medians M~1~   |
| Conditions     |                | is 1 for test  | and M~2~ hence |
|                |                | step 9.        | 0.6M per dB.   |
|                |                |                | 1dB linearity  |
|                |                |                | uncertainty    |
|                |                |                | maps to 0.6 M. |
|                |                |                | Since M is     |
|                |                |                | integer, the M |
|                |                |                | uncertainty is |
|                |                |                | 1: TT for M is |
|                |                |                | defined to 1   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | Formula:       |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                |                | difference in  |
|                |                |                | medians M~1~   |
|                |                |                | and M~2~ =     |
|                |                |                | 6-TT           |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.2 Single   |                | No test        |                |
| Link           |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| Fading         |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| conditions     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.2A Single  |                | No test        |                |
| Link           |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| Fading         |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| conditions,    |                |                |                |
| DC-HSDPA       |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.2AA Single |                | No test        |                |
| Link           |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| Fading         |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| conditions,    |                |                |                |
| DB-DC-HSDPA    |                |                |                |
| requirements   |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.2B Single  |                | No test        |                |
| Link           |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| Fading         |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| conditions,    |                |                |                |
| 64QAM          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.3 Open     |                | No test        |                |
| Loop Diversity |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| AWGN           |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| conditions     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.4 Open     |                | No test        |                |
| Loop Diversity |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| Fading         |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| conditions     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.5 Closed   |                | No test        |                |
| Loop Diversity |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| AWGN           |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| conditions     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.6 Closed   |                | No test        |                |
| Loop Diversity |                | tolerances     |                |
| Performance -  |                | applied        |                |
| Fading         |                |                |                |
| propagation    |                |                |                |
| conditions     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.7A, MIMO   |                | No test        |                |
| performance -- |                | tolerances     |                |
| Reporting of   |                | applied        |                |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
| Quality        |                |                |                |
| indicator -    |                |                |                |
| Single stream  |                |                |                |
| fading         |                |                |                |
| conditions     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.7B MIMO    |                | No test        |                |
| performance -- |                | tolerances     |                |
| Reporting of   |                | applied        |                |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
| Quality        |                |                |                |
| indicator -    |                |                |                |
| Dual stream    |                |                |                |
| fading         |                |                |                |
| conditions     |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.7C MIMO    |                | No test        |                |
| performance -- |                | tolerances     |                |
| Reporting of   |                | applied        |                |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
| Quality        |                |                |                |
| indicator -    |                |                |                |
| Dual stream    |                |                |                |
| fading         |                |                |                |
| conditions--   |                |                |                |
| UE categories  |                |                |                |
| 19-20          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.7D MIMO    |                | No test        |                |
| performance -- |                | tolerances     |                |
| Reporting of   |                | applied        |                |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
| Quality        |                |                |                |
| indicator -    |                |                |                |
| Dual stream    |                |                |                |
| static         |                |                |                |
| orthogonal     |                |                |                |
| conditions --  |                |                |                |
| UE categories  |                |                |                |
| 15-20          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.7E MIMO    |                | No test        |                |
| performance    |                | tolerances     |                |
| --Reporting of |                | applied        |                |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
| Quality        |                |                |                |
| indicator -    |                |                |                |
| Dual stream    |                |                |                |
| static         |                |                |                |
| orthogonal     |                |                |                |
| conditions --  |                |                |                |
| UE categories  |                |                |                |
| 19-20          |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.7F MIMO    |                | No test        |                |
| performance -- |                | tolerances     |                |
| Reporting of   |                | applied        |                |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
| Quality        |                |                |                |
| indicator -    |                |                |                |
| Single stream  |                |                |                |
| fading         |                |                |                |
| conditions --  |                |                |                |
| Asymmetric     |                |                |                |
| CPICHs         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.7G MIMO    |                | No test        |                |
| performance -- |                | tolerances     |                |
| Reporting of   |                | applied        |                |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
| Quality        |                |                |                |
| indicator -    |                |                |                |
| Dual stream    |                |                |                |
| fading         |                |                |                |
| conditions --  |                |                |                |
| Asymmetric     |                |                |                |
| CPICHs         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.7H MIMO    |                | No test        |                |
| performance -- |                | tolerances     |                |
| Reporting of   |                | applied        |                |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
| Quality        |                |                |                |
| indicator -    |                |                |                |
| Dual stream    |                |                |                |
| fading         |                |                |                |
| conditions--   |                |                |                |
| UE categories  |                |                |                |
| 19-20 --       |                |                |                |
| Asymmetric     |                |                |                |
| CPICHs         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.7I MIMO    |                | No test        |                |
| performance -- |                | tolerances     |                |
| Reporting of   |                | applied        |                |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
| Quality        |                |                |                |
| indicator -    |                |                |                |
| Dual stream    |                |                |                |
| static         |                |                |                |
| orthogonal     |                |                |                |
| conditions --  |                |                |                |
| UE categories  |                |                |                |
| 15-20 --       |                |                |                |
| Asymmetric     |                |                |                |
| CPICHs         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.3.7J MIMO    |                | No test        |                |
| performance    |                | tolerances     |                |
| --Reporting of |                | applied        |                |
| Channel        |                |                |                |
| Quality        |                |                |                |
| indicator -    |                |                |                |
| Dual stream    |                |                |                |
| static         |                |                |                |
| orthogonal     |                |                |                |
| conditions --  |                |                |                |
| UE categories  |                |                |                |
| 19-20 --       |                |                |                |
| Asymmetric     |                |                |                |
| CPICHs         |                |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.1 Single   | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Link           | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
|                | -9, -9.9 and   | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
|                | -10 dB         | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | $              |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | $              |
|                | = 0 and 5 dB   |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.1A Single  | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Link           | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Performance -  | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| Enhanced       | -12 and -15.6  | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| Performance    | dB             | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| Requirements   |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| Type 1         | $              |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.6 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | $              |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.2 Open     | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| loop diversity | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
|                | -11.6, -13.4   | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
|                | and -11.5 dB   | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | $              |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | $              |
|                | = 0 and 5 dB   |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.2A Open    | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| loop diversity | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| performance -- | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| Enhanced       | -15.2 and      | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| Performance    | -16.4 dB       | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| Requirements   |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| Type 1         | $              |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | $              |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.3 HS-SCCH  | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Type 3         | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
|                | -14.7, -15.6,  | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
|                | -16 and -16.8  | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | dB             | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | $              | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | ${\hat{I}      |                |                |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | $              |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.3A HS-SCCH | ![](media/     | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Type 3         | image58.wmf){w |                |                |
| Performance    | idth="0.238194 | for            | ![](media/     |
| -STTD          | 44444444443in" | ![](media/     | image58.wmf){w |
| disabled-      | he             | image58.wmf){w | idth="0.238194 |
| Asymmetric     | ight="0.372916 | idth="0.238194 | 44444444443in" |
| CPICHs         | 6666666667in"} | 44444444443in" | he             |
|                | -12.3, -14.9,  | he             | ight="0.372916 |
|                | -11.4 and      | ight="0.372916 | 6666666667in"} |
|                | -14.2 dB       | 6666666667in"} | = ratio + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ![](media      | 0.8 dB for     | ![](media      |
|                | /image59.wmf){ | ![](media      | /image60.wmf){ |
|                | width="0.22222 | /image60.wmf){ | width="0.41666 |
|                | 22222222222in" | width="0.41666 | 66666666667in" |
|                | hei            | 66666666667in" | he             |
|                | ght="0.2083333 | he             | ight="0.222222 |
|                | 3333333334in"} | ight="0.222222 | 2222222222in"} |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 2222222222in"} | = ratio + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ![](media      |                | ![](media      |
|                | /image60.wmf){ |                | /image59.wmf){ |
|                | width="0.41666 |                | width="0.22222 |
|                | 66666666667in" |                | 22222222222in" |
|                | he             |                | hei            |
|                | ight="0.222222 |                | ght="0.2083333 |
|                | 2222222222in"} |                | 3333333334in"} |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.3B HS-SCCH | ![](media/     | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Type 3         | image58.wmf){w |                |                |
| Performance    | idth="0.238194 | for            | ![](media/     |
| -STTD enabled- | 44444444443in" | ![](media/     | image58.wmf){w |
| Asymmetric     | he             | image58.wmf){w | idth="0.238194 |
| CPICHs         | ight="0.372916 | idth="0.238194 | 44444444443in" |
|                | 6666666667in"} | 44444444443in" | he             |
|                | -15.3, -16.7,  | he             | ight="0.372916 |
|                | -14.4 and      | ight="0.372916 | 6666666667in"} |
|                | -15.8 dB       | 6666666667in"} | = ratio + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ![](media      | 0.8 dB for     | ![](media      |
|                | /image59.wmf){ | ![](media      | /image60.wmf){ |
|                | width="0.22222 | /image60.wmf){ | width="0.41666 |
|                | 22222222222in" | width="0.41666 | 66666666667in" |
|                | hei            | 66666666667in" | he             |
|                | ght="0.2083333 | he             | ight="0.222222 |
|                | 3333333334in"} | ight="0.222222 | 2222222222in"} |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 2222222222in"} | = ratio + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ![](media      |                | ![](media      |
|                | /image60.wmf){ |                | /image59.wmf){ |
|                | width="0.41666 |                | width="0.22222 |
|                | 66666666667in" |                | 22222222222in" |
|                | he             |                | hei            |
|                | ight="0.222222 |                | ght="0.2083333 |
|                | 2222222222in"} |                | 3333333334in"} |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.4 HS-SCCH  | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Type 3         | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| for MIMO only  | -8.9, -11.0,   | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| with           | -15.6 and      | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| single-stream  | -16.8 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| restriction    |                |                |                |
|                | $              | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | ${\hat{I}      |                |                |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | $              |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.4A HS-SCCH | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Type 3         | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| for MIMO only  | -15.6 and      | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| with           | -16.8 dB       | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| single-stream  |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| restri         | $              |                |                |
| ction-Enhanced | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
| Performance    | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| Requirements   |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| Type1          | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | $              |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.4B HS-SCCH | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Type 3         | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| for MIMO only  | -11.0, -8.7,   | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| with           | -12.3 and      | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| single-stream  | -14.9 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| re             |                |                |                |
| striction-STTD | $              | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
| disab          | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| led-asymmetric | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| CPICHs         |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | ${\hat{I}      |                |                |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | $              |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.4C HS-SCCH | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Type 3         | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| for MIMO only  | -12.3 and      | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| with           | -14.9 dB       | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| single-stream  |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| re             | $              |                |                |
| striction-STTD | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
| disab          | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| led-asymmetric |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| C              | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| PICHs-Enhanced | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
| Performance    | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | $              |
| Requirements   | = 0 dB         |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| Type 1         |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.4D HS-SCCH | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Type 3         | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| for MIMO only  | -8.4, -11.1,   | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| with           | -15.3 and      | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| single-stream  | -16.7 dB       | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| re             |                |                |                |
| striction-STTD | $              | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
| enab           | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| led-asymmetric | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| CPICHs         |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | ${\hat{I}      |                |                |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | $              |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.4.4E HS-SCCH | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| Type 3         | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Performance    | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| for MIMO only  | -15.3 and      | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| with           | -16.7 dB       | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| single-stream  |                | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| re             | $              |                |                |
| striction-STTD | I_{\text{oc}}$ | 0.8 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
| enab           | = -60 dBm      | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| led-asymmetric |                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| C              | ${\hat{I}      | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| PICHs-Enhanced | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
| Performance    | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                | $              |
| Requirements   | = 0 dB         |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| Type 1         |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.5.1          | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| HS-SCCH-less   | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| demodulation   | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| of HS-DSCH     | -6 dB          | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
|                |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
|                | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 0.6 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.5.1A         | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| HS-SCCH-less   | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| demodulation   | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| of HS-DSCH,    | -9 dB          | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| Enhanced       |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| Performance    | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
| Requirements   | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
| Type 1         | = -60 dBm      | 0.6 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.6.1 Single   | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| link HS-DSCH   | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Demodulation   | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| performance in | -6 dB          | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| CELL\_FACH     |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| state          | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 0.6 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 9.6.2 Single   | $\             | 0.1 dB         | Formulas:      |
| link HS-SCCH   | \frac{E_{c}}{I |                |                |
| Detection      | _{\text{or}}}$ | for            | $\             |
| performance in | -10 dB         | $\             | \frac{E_{c}}{I |
| CELL\_FACH     |                | \frac{E_{c}}{I | _{\text{or}}}$ |
| state          | $              | _{\text{or}}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = -60 dBm      | 0.6 dB for     | ${\hat{I}      |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}      | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ | I_{\text{oc}}$ | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

F.4.6 Performance requirements (E-DCH)
--------------------------------------

Table F.4.6: Derivation of Test Requirements (Performance tests E-DCH)

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Test           | Minimum        | Test           | Test           |
|                | Requirement in | Tolerance\     | Requirement in |
|                | TS 25.101      | (TT)           | TS 34.121      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.1.1       | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Detection of   | = -35.1 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior |                |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     | = ratio + TT   |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| (E-HICH)       | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| Single Link    |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| Performance    | ${\hat{I}      |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| (10 ms TTI)    | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.1.1A      | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Detection of   | = -38.1 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior |                |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     | = ratio + TT   |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| (E-HICH)       | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| Single Link    |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| Performance    | ${\hat{I}      |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| (10 ms TTI,    | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | = ratio + TT   |
| Type 1)        | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.1.2       | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Same as in     |
| Detection of   | = -28.3 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 10.2.1.1       |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                |                |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     |                |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| (E-HICH)       | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |
| Single Link    |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| Performance (2 | ${\hat{I}      |                |                |
| ms TTI)        | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.1.2A      | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Same as in     |
| Detection of   | = -31.7 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 10.2.1.1       |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                |                |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     |                |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| (E-HICH)       | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |
| Single Link    |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| Performance (2 | ${\hat{I}      |                |                |
| ms TTI, Type   | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
| 1)             | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.2.1.1     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Detection of   | = -23.6 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior |                |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     | = ratio + TT   |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| (E-HICH) in    | = -60 dBm      | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
| Inter-Cell     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}1}/ |
| handover       | ${\hat{I}}     | and            | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions --  | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     | = ratio + TT   |
| RLS not        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |
| containing the | = 0 dB         | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |
| serving E-DCH  |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
| cell (10 ms    | ${\hat{I}}     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| TTI)           | _{\text{or}2}/ |                | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.2.1.1A    | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Detection of   | = -27.8 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior |                |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     | = ratio + TT   |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| (E-HICH) in    | = -60 dBm      | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
| Inter-Cell     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}1}/ |
| handover       | ${\hat{I}}     | and            | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| conditions --  | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     | = ratio + TT   |
| RLS not        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |
| containing the | = 0 dB         | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |
| serving E-DCH  |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
| cell (10 ms    | ${\hat{I}}     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| TTI, Type 1)   | _{\text{or}2}/ |                | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.2.1.2     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Same as        |
| Detection of   | = -16.3 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 10.2.2.1.1     |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                |                |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     |                |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| (E-HICH) in    | = -60 dBm      | _{\text{or}1}/ |                |
| Inter-Cell     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| handover       | ${\hat{I}}     | and            |                |
| conditions --  | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| RLS not        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |
| containing the | = 0 dB         | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| serving E-DCH  |                |                |                |
| cell (2 ms     | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
| TTI)           | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.2.1.2A    | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Same as        |
| Detection of   | = -20.6 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 10.2.2.1.1     |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                |                |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     |                |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| (E-HICH) in    | = -60 dBm      | _{\text{or}1}/ |                |
| Inter-Cell     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| handover       | ${\hat{I}}     | and            |                |
| conditions --  | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| RLS not        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |
| containing the | = 0 dB         | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| serving E-DCH  |                |                |                |
| cell (2 ms     | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
| TTI, Type 1)   | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.2.2.1     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Same as        |
| Detection of   | = -29.7 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 10.2.2.1.1     |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                |                |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     |                |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| (E-HICH) in    | = -60 dBm      | _{\text{or}1}/ |                |
| Inter-Cell     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| handover       | ${\hat{I}}     | and            |                |
| conditions --  | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| RLS containing | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |
| the serving    | = 0 dB         | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| E-DCH cell (10 |                |                |                |
| ms TTI)        | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.2.2.1A    | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Same as        |
| Detection of   | = -33.4 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 10.2.2.1.1     |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                |                |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     |                |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| (E-HICH) in    | = -60 dBm      | _{\text{or}1}/ |                |
| Inter-Cell     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| handover       | ${\hat{I}}     | and            |                |
| conditions --  | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| RLS containing | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |
| the serving    | = 0 dB         | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| E-DCH cell (10 |                |                |                |
| ms TTI, Type   | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
| 1)             | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.2.2.2     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Same as        |
| Detection of   | = -23.2 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 10.2.2.1.1     |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                |                |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     |                |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| (E-HICH) in    | = -60 dBm      | _{\text{or}1}/ |                |
| Inter-Cell     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| handover       | ${\hat{I}}     | and            |                |
| conditions --  | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| RLS containing | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |
| the serving    | = 0 dB         | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| E-DCH cell (2  |                |                |                |
| ms TTI)        | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.2.2.2.2A    | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Same as        |
| Detection of   | = -27.1 dB     | E-HICH\_Ec/Ior | 10.2.2.1.1     |
| E-DCH HARQ ACK |                |                |                |
| Indicator      | $              | 0.6 dB for     |                |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| (E-HICH) in    | = -60 dBm      | _{\text{or}1}/ |                |
| Inter-Cell     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| handover       | ${\hat{I}}     | and            |                |
| conditions --  | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| RLS containing | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |
| the serving    | = 0 dB         | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| E-DCH cell (2  |                |                |                |
| ms TTI, Type   | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
| 1)             | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.3.1.1       | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Detection of   | = -31 dB       | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior |                |
| E-DCH Relative |                |                | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior |
| Grant Channel  | $              | 0.6 dB for     | = ratio + TT   |
| (E-RGCH)       | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| Single Link    | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| Performance    |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| (10 ms TTI)    | ${\hat{I}      |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.3.1.1A      | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Detection of   | = -35 dB       | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior |                |
| E-DCH Relative |                |                | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior |
| Grant Channel  | $              | 0.6 dB for     | = ratio + TT   |
| (E-RGCH)       | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| Single Link    | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| Performance    |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| (10 ms TTI,    | ${\hat{I}      |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| Type 1)        | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.3.1.2       | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Same as        |
| Detection of   | = -24.4 dB     | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior | 10.3.1.1       |
| E-DCH Relative |                |                |                |
| Grant Channel  | $              | 0.6 dB for     |                |
| (E-RGCH)       | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| Single Link    | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |
| Performance (2 |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| ms TTI)        | ${\hat{I}      |                |                |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.3.1.2A      | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Same as        |
| Detection of   | = -28.6 dB     | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior | 10.3.1.1       |
| E-DCH Relative |                |                |                |
| Grant Channel  | $              | 0.6 dB for     |                |
| (E-RGCH)       | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| Single Link    | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |
| Performance (2 |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
| ms TTI, Type   | ${\hat{I}      |                |                |
| 1)             | }_{\text{or}}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.3.2         | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Detection of   | = -27.3 dB     | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior |                |
| E-DCH Relative |                |                | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior |
| Grant Channel  | $              | 0.6 dB for     | = ratio + TT   |
| (E-RGCH) in    | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| Inter-Cell     | = -60 dBm      | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
| Handover       |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}1}/ |
| conditions     | ${\hat{I}}     | and            | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |
|                | = 0 dB         | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ |                | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.3.2A        | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Detection of   | = -31.2 dB     | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior |                |
| E-DCH Relative |                |                | E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior |
| Grant Channel  | $              | 0.6 dB for     | = ratio + TT   |
| (E-RGCH) in    | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |                |
| Inter-Cell     | = -60 dBm      | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     |
| Handover       |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}1}/ |
| conditions     | ${\hat{I}}     | and            | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| (Type 1)       | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |
|                | = 0 dB         | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ |                | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.4.1         | E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | = -23.2 dB     | E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior |                |
| of E-DCH       |                |                | E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior |
| Absolute Grant | $              | 0.6 dB for     | = ratio + TT   |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| (E-AGCH)       | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| Single Link    |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| Performance    | ${\hat{I}      |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 10.4.1A        | E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior | 0.1 dB for     | Formulas:      |
| Demodulation   | = -26.8 dB     | E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior |                |
| of E-DCH       |                |                | E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior |
| Absolute Grant | $              | 0.6 dB for     | = ratio + TT   |
| Channel        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}      |                |
| (E-AGCH)       | = -60 dBm      | }_{\text{or}}/ | ${\hat{I}      |
| Single Link    |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | }_{\text{or}}/ |
| Performance    | ${\hat{I}      |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
| (Type 1)       | }_{\text{or}}/ |                | = ratio + TT   |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                | $              |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | unchanged      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

F.4.7 Performance requirements (MBMS)
-------------------------------------

Table F.4.7: Derivation of Test Requirements (Performance tests MBMS)

+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| Test           | Minimum        | Test           | Test           |
|                | Requirement in | Tolerance\     | Requirement    |
|                | TS 25.101      | (TT)           | in\            |
|                |                |                | TS 34.121      |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 11.2           | S              | 0.1 dB for\    | Formulas:\     |
| Demodulation   | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior | S              | S              |
| of MTCH        | = -4.9, -5.6,  | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |
|                | -8.5 dB        | ratio          | = ratio + TT   |
|                |                |                |                |
|                |                | 0.6 dB for     | $              |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}1}/ | unchanged      |
|                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                | 0.6 dB for     | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ | = ratio +TT    |
|                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                | 0.6 dB for     | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}3}/ | = ratio +TT    |
|                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}3}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = ratio +TT    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 11.2A          | S              | 0.1 dB for\    | Formulas:\     |
| Demodulation   | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior | S              | S              |
| of MTCH -      | = -7.7, -8.7,  | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |
| Enhanced       | -11.5 dB       | ratio          | = ratio + TT   |
| Performance    |                |                |                |
| Requirements   |                | 0.6 dB for     | $              |
| Type 1         |                | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}1}/ | unchanged      |
|                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                | 0.6 dB for     | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ | = ratio +TT    |
|                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                | 0.6 dB for     | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                |                | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                | _{\text{or}3}/ | = ratio +TT    |
|                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}3}/ |
|                |                |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                |                |                | = ratio +TT    |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
| 11.3           | S              | 0.1 dB for\    | Formulas:\     |
| Demodulation   | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior | S              | S              |
| of MTCH and    | = −5.6 dB      | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior | -CCPCH\_Ec/Ior |
| cell           |                | ratio          | = ratio + TT   |
| identification | Stage 1:       |                |                |
|                |                | 0.6 dB for     | $              |
|                | $              | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}1}/ | unchanged      |
|                | = −70 dB       | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |
|                |                |                | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | 0.6 dB for     | _{\text{or}1}/ |
|                | _{\text{or}1}/ | ${\hat{I}}     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}2}/ | = ratio +TT    |
|                | = −3 dB        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}2}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     | 0.6 dB for     | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ | ${\hat{I}}     | = ratio +TT    |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ | _{\text{or}3}/ |                |
|                | = −3 dB        | I_{\text{oc}}$ | ${\hat{I}}     |
|                |                |                | _{\text{or}3}/ |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     |                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |
|                | _{\text{or}3}/ |                | = ratio +TT    |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = −infinity    |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Stage 2:       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | $              |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = −73 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
|                | _{\text{or}1}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
|                | _{\text{or}3}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = 0 dB         |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | Stage 3:       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | $              |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = −70 dB       |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
|                | _{\text{or}1}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = −3 dB        |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
|                | _{\text{or}2}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = −infinity    |                |                |
|                |                |                |                |
|                | ${\hat{I}}     |                |                |
|                | _{\text{or}3}/ |                |                |
|                | I_{\text{oc}}$ |                |                |
|                | = −3 dB        |                |                |
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+

F.5 Acceptable uncertainty of Test Equipment (This clause is informative)
=========================================================================

This informative clause specifies the critical parameters of the
components of an overall Test System (e.g. Signal generators, Signal
Analysers etc.) which are necessary when assembling a Test System that
complies with clause F.1 Acceptable Uncertainty of Test System. These
Test Equipment parameters are fundamental to the accuracy of the overall
Test System and are unlikely to be improved upon through System
Calibration.

F.5.1 Transmitter measurements
------------------------------

Table F.5.1: Equipment accuracy for transmitter measurements

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Test                 | Equipment accuracy   | Test conditions      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2 Maximum Output   | Not critical         | 19 to 25 dBm         |
| Power                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2A Maximum Output  | Not critical         | 19 to 25 dBm         |
| Power with HS-DPCCH  |                      |                      |
| (Release 5 only)     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2AA Maximum Output | Not critical         | 19 to 25 dBm         |
| Power with HS-DPCCH  |                      |                      |
| (Release 6 and       |                      |                      |
| later)               |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2B Maximum Output  | Not critical         | 19 to 25 dBm         |
| Power with HS-DPCCH  |                      |                      |
| and E-DCH            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2C UE relative     | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | -10 to 10 dBm        |
| code domain power    | CDP ± 0.2 dB         |                      |
| accuracy             |                      |                      |
|                      | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.3 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2D UE Relative     | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | -10 to 10 dBm        |
| Code Domain Power    | CDP ± 0.2 dB         |                      |
| Accuracy with        |                      |                      |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH   | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.3 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.2E UE Relative     | For 0 dB ≥ -10 dB    | -10 to 10 dBm        |
| Code Domain Power    | CDP± 0.2 dB          |                      |
| Accuracy for         |                      |                      |
| HS-DPCCH and E-DCH   | For -10 dB ≥ -15 dB  |                      |
| with 16QAM           | CDP ± 0.3 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For -15 dB ≥ -20 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.4 dB         |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | For -20 dB ≥ -30 dB  |                      |
|                      | CDP ± 0.5 dB         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.3 Frequency error  | ± 10 Hz              | 0 to 500 Hz.         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.1 Open loop      | Not critical         | -43.7 dBm to 25 dBm  |
| power control in     |                      |                      |
| uplink               |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.2 Inner loop     | ±0.1 dB relative     | +25 dBm to -50 dBm   |
| power control in the | over a 1.5 dB range  |                      |
| uplink               |                      |                      |
|                      | ±0.15 dB relative    |                      |
|                      | over a 3.0 dB range\ |                      |
|                      | ±0.2 dB relative     |                      |
|                      | over a 4.5 dB range  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB relative     |                      |
|                      | over a 26 dB range   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.3 Minimum Output | Not critical         |                      |
| Power                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.4                | ±0.1 dB uncertainty  | Ratio from --16.6 dB |
| Ou                   | in DPCCH\_Ec/Ior     | to --28 dB           |
| t-of-synchronisation | ratio                |                      |
| handling of output   |                      |                      |
| power:               |                      |                      |
| $                    |                      |                      |
| \ \frac{\text{DPCCH} |                      |                      |
| _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.4.4A               | ±0.1 dB uncertainty  | Ratio from --19.6 dB |
| Ou                   | in DPCCH\_Ec/Ior     | to --31 dB           |
| t-of-synchronisation | ratio                |                      |
| handling of output   |                      |                      |
| power for a UE which |                      |                      |
| supports type 1 for  |                      |                      |
| DCH:                 |                      |                      |
| $                    |                      |                      |
| \ \frac{\text{DPCCH} |                      |                      |
| _{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.5.1 Transmit       | Not critical         | -56 dBm (static      |
| ON/OFF Power: UE     |                      | power)               |
| transmit OFF power   |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.5.2 Transmit       | TBD                  | -56 dBm (dynamic     |
| ON/OFF Power:        |                      | power over approx.   |
| transmit ON/OFF time |                      | 70 dB range)         |
| mask                 |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.6 Change of TFC:   | ±0.3 dB relative     | +25 dBm to --50 dBm  |
| power control step   | over a 9 dB range    |                      |
| size                 |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.7 Power setting in | Subset of 5.4.2      | +25 dBm to --50 dBm  |
| uplink compressed    |                      |                      |
| mode:- UE output     |                      |                      |
| power                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.7A HS-DPCCH        | ±0.1 dB relative     | +25 dBm to -50 dBm   |
|                      | over a 1.5 dB range  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ±0.15 dB relative    |                      |
|                      | over a 3.0 dB range  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ±0.2 dB relative     |                      |
|                      | over a 4.5 dB range  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | ±0.3 dB relative     |                      |
|                      | over a 26 dB range   |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.8 Occupied         | ±100 kHz             | For results between  |
| Bandwidth            |                      | 4 and 6 MHz?         |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9 Spectrum         | Not critical         | P\_Max               |
| emission mask        |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Accuracy applies     |
|                      |                      | ± 5 dB either side   |
|                      |                      | of UE requirements   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9A Spectrum        | Not critical         | P\_Max               |
| emission mask with   |                      |                      |
| HS-DPCCH             |                      | Accuracy applies     |
|                      |                      | ± 5 dB either side   |
|                      |                      | of UE requirements   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.9B Spectrum        | Not critical         | P\_Max               |
| emission mask with   |                      |                      |
| E-DCH                |                      | Accuracy applies     |
|                      |                      | ± 5 dB either side   |
|                      |                      | of UE requirements   |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10 ACLR            | 5 MHz offset ± 0.8   | 19 to 25 dBm at 5    |
|                      | dB                   | MHz offset for       |
|                      |                      | results between 40   |
|                      | 10 MHz offset ± 0.8  | dB and 50 dB.        |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | 25 dBm at 10 MHz     |
|                      |                      | offset for results   |
|                      |                      | between 45 dB and 55 |
|                      |                      | dB.                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10A ACLR with      | 5 MHz offset ± 0.8   | 19 to 25 dBm at 5    |
| HS-DPCCH             | dB                   | MHz offset for       |
|                      |                      | results between 40   |
|                      | 10 MHz offset ± 0.8  | dB and 50 dB.        |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | 25 dBm at 10 MHz     |
|                      |                      | offset for results   |
|                      |                      | between 45 dB and 55 |
|                      |                      | dB.                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10B ACLR with      | 5 MHz offset ± 0.8   | 19 to 25 dBm at 5    |
| E-DCH                | dB                   | MHz offset for       |
|                      |                      | results between 40   |
|                      | 10 MHz offset ± 0.8  | dB and 50 dB.        |
|                      | dB                   |                      |
|                      |                      | 25 dBm at 10 MHz     |
|                      |                      | offset for results   |
|                      |                      | between 45 dB and 55 |
|                      |                      | dB.                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.10C ACLR with      | 7.5 MHz offset ± 0.8 | 19 to 25 dBm at 7.5  |
| E-DCH for DC-HSUPA   | dB                   | MHz offset for       |
|                      |                      | results between 40   |
|                      | 12.5 MHz offset      | dB and 50 dB.        |
|                      | ± 0.8 dB             |                      |
|                      |                      | 25 dBm at 12.5 MHz   |
|                      |                      | offset for results   |
|                      |                      | between 45 dB and 55 |
|                      |                      | dB.                  |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.11 Spurious        | Not critical         | 19 to 25 dBm         |
| emissions            |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.11A Spurious       | Not critical         | 19 to 25 dBm         |
| emissions for        |                      |                      |
| DC-HSUPA             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.12 Transmit        | Not critical         | 19 to 25 dBm         |
| Intermodulation      |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.12A Transmit       | Not critical         | 19 to 25 dBm         |
| Intermodulation for  |                      |                      |
| DC‑HSUPA             |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.1 Transmit      | ±2.5 %               | 25 dBm to --21 dBm   |
| modulation: EVM      |                      |                      |
|                      | (for single code)    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.1A Transmit     | ±2.5 %               | 25 dBm to --21 dBm   |
| modulation: EVM with |                      |                      |
| HS-DPCCH             | (for single code)    |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.1AAA EVM and IQ | ±0.5 dB              | UE transmitted power |
| origin offset for    |                      | = -28 dB             |
| HS-DPCCH with E-DCH  | (for IQ origin       |                      |
| with 16 QAM          | offset)              | ± 2dB                |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.2 Transmit      | ±1.0dB               | For readings between |
| modulation: peak     |                      | -10 dB to --20 dB.   |
| code domain error    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.2A Relative     | ±0.5 dB              | Effective Code       |
| Code Domain Error    |                      | Domain Power \> -30  |
|                      |                      | dB                   |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Nominal Code Domain  |
|                      |                      | Power                |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | \> ‑20 dB            |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.2B Relative     | ±0.5 dB              | Effective Code       |
| Code Domain Error    |                      | Domain Power \> -30  |
| with HS-DPCCH and    |                      | dB                   |
| E-DCH                |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Nominal Code Domain  |
|                      |                      | Power                |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | \> ‑20 dB            |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.2C Relative     | ±0.5 dB              | Effective Code       |
| Code Domain Error    |                      | Domain Power \> -30  |
| for HS-DPCCH and     |                      | dB                   |
| E-DCH with 16QAM     |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | Nominal Code Domain  |
|                      |                      | Power                |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      |                      | \> ‑30 dB            |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.3 UE phase      | ±10 Hz for Frequency | +25 dBm to --50 dBm  |
| discontinuity        | error                |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | ±2.5 % for EVM (for  | +25 dBm to --20 dBm  |
|                      | single code)         |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
|                      | 6 degree for Phase   | +25 dBm to --50 dBm  |
|                      | discontinuity        |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.4 PRACH         | ±2.5 %               | 25 dBm to --21 dBm   |
| preamble quality     |                      |                      |
| (EVM)                |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 5.13.4 PRACH         | ± 10 Hz              | 0 to 500 Hz.         |
| preamble quality     |                      |                      |
| (Frequency error)    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

F.5.2 Receiver measurements
---------------------------

Table F.5.2: Equipment accuracy for receiver measurements

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -----------------
  Clause                                                                        Equipment accuracy   Test conditions
  6.2 Reference sensitivity level                                               Not critical         
  6.2A Reference sensitivity level for DC-HSDPA                                 Not critical         
  6.2B Reference sensitivity level for DB-DC-HSDPA                              Not critical         
  6.2C Reference sensitivity level for single band 4C-HSDPA                     Not critical         
  6.2D Reference sensitivity level for Dual band 4C-HSDPA                       Not critical         
  6.3 Maximum input level:                                                      Not critical         
  6.3A Maximum Input Level for HS-PDSCH Reception (16QAM)                       Not critical         
  6.3B Maximum Input Level for HS-PDSCH Reception (64QAM)                       Not critical         
  6.3C Maximum Input Level for DC-HSDPA Reception (16QAM)                       Not critical         
  6.3D Maximum Input Level for DC-HSDPA Reception (64QAM)                       Not critical         
  6.3E Maximum Input Level for DB-DC-HSDPA Reception (16QAM)                    Not critical         
  6.3F Maximum Input Level for DB-DC-HSDPA Reception (64QAM)                    Not critical         
  6.3G Maximum Input Level for 4C-HSDPA Reception (16QAM)                       Not critical         
  6.3H Maximum Input Level for 4C-HSDPA Reception (64QAM)                       Not critical         
  6.4 Adjacent channel selectivity (Rel-99 and Rel-4)                           Not critical         
  6.4A Adjacent channel selectivity (Rel-5 and later releases)                  Not critical         
  6.4B Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) for DC-HSDPA                          Not critical         
  6.4C Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) for DB-DC-HSDPA                       Not critical         
  6.5 Blocking characteristics                                                  Not critical         
  6.5A Blocking characteristics for DC-HSDPA                                    Not critical         
  6.5B Blocking characteristics for DB-DC-HSDPA                                 Not critical         
  6.5D Blocking Characteristics for single Uplink Single band 4C-HSDPA          Not critical         
  6.5E Blocking Characteristics for dual Uplink Single band 4C-HSDPA            Not critical         
  6.5F Blocking Characteristics for single Uplink Dual band 4C-HSDPA            Not critical         
  6.5G Blocking Characteristics for dual Uplink Dual band 4C-HSDPA              Not critical         
  6.6 Spurious Response                                                         Not critical         
  6.6A Spurious Response for DC-HSDPA                                           Not critical         
  6.6B Spurious Response for DB-DC-HSDPA                                        Not critical         
  6.6C Spurious Response for single band 4C-HSDPA                               Not critical         
  6.6D Spurious Response for dual band 4C-HSDPA                                 Not critical         
  6.7 Intermod Characteristics                                                  Not critical         
  6.7A Intermodulation Characteristics for DC-HSDPA                             Not critical         
  6.7B Intermodulation Characteristics for DB-DC-HSDPA                          Not critical         
  6.7D Intermodulation Characteristics for single uplink single band 4C-HSDPA   Not critical         
  6.7E Intermodulation Characteristics for single uplink dual band 4C-HSDPA     Not critical         
  6.8 Spurious emissions                                                        Not critical         
  6.8A Spurious Emissions for DB-DC-HSDPA                                       Not critical         
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- -----------------

F.5.3 Performance measurements
------------------------------

Table F.5.3: Equipment accuracy for performance measurements

  ------------- ------------------------------------------------ --------------------
  Clause        Equipment accuracy                               Test conditions
  7.2 to 7.10   $\frac{\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ ±0.1 dB   -2.2 to --21.8 dB
  7.13          ±\[0.3\] dB relative over 4 dB range             +25 dBm to -50 dBm
  ------------- ------------------------------------------------ --------------------

F.5.4 Requirements for support of RRM
-------------------------------------

Table F.5.4: Equipment accuracy for RRM

+------------------------+------------------------+-----------------+
| Clause                 | Equipment accuracy     | Test conditions |
+------------------------+------------------------+-----------------+
| 8.2.2 to 8.7.8         | any\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB    |                 |
|                        |                        |                 |
|                        | Ior//Ioc ±0.3 dB       |                 |
|                        |                        |                 |
|                        | Ioc1/Ioc2 ±0.3 dB      |                 |
|                        |                        |                 |
|                        | Ioc ±1.0 dB            |                 |
|                        |                        |                 |
|                        | RXLEV ±1.0 dB          |                 |
|                        |                        |                 |
|                        | Ioc/ RXLEV             |                 |
|                        |                        |                 |
|                        | ±0.5 dB                |                 |
+------------------------+------------------------+-----------------+
| 8.4.2.1A Correct       | PRACH timing error     | ±10 chips       |
| behaviour when         | ±0.5 chips             |                 |
| receiving an ACK       |                        |                 |
| (Release 6 and later)  |                        |                 |
+------------------------+------------------------+-----------------+

F.5.5 Performance measurements (HSDPA)
--------------------------------------

Table F.5.5: Equipment accuracy for performance measurements (HSDPA)

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Clause               | Equipment accuracy   | Test conditions      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.1A to 9.2.1DB    | $\frac{E_            | -12, -9, -6 and -3   |
| Single Link          | {c}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | dB                   |
| Performance          | ±0.1 dB              |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.1LA Enhanced     | Time alignment       |                      |
| Performance          | between DC-HSDPA     |                      |
| Requirements Type 3i | cells:               |                      |
| - QPSK, Fixed        |                      |                      |
| Reference Channel    | ±½ chip              |                      |
| (FRC) H-Set 6A       |                      |                      |
|                      | The (0 ns / 0        |                      |
|                      | dB)-tap in the faded |                      |
|                      | signal shall be      |                      |
|                      | (equally timed ±½    |                      |
|                      | chip) compared to    |                      |
|                      | the delayed signal.  |                      |
|                      |                      |                      |
|                      | Critical!            |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.2A to 9.2.2E     | Same as 9.2.1A       | Same as 9.2.1A       |
| Open loop diversity  |                      |                      |
| performance          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.3A to 9.2.3E     | Same as 9.2.1A       | Same as 9.2.1A       |
| Closed loop          |                      |                      |
| diversity            |                      |                      |
| performance          |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.2.4A to 9.2.4H     | Same as 9.2.1A       | -1.5, -2 dB          |
| MIMO performance     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.1 Single Link    | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| Performance - AWGN   |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.1A Single Link   | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| Performance - AWGN   |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions, 64QAM    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.1B Single Link   | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| Performance - AWGN   |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions, DC HSDPA |                      |                      |
| requirements         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.1C Single Link   | Same as 9.2.1A       | -60dBm ≤ Ioc ≤       |
| Performance - AWGN   |                      | -50dBm               |
| Propagation          | Additionally Ioc     |                      |
| Conditions,          | linearity 1dB        |                      |
| Periodically Varying |                      |                      |
| Radio Conditions     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.2 Single Link    | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| Performance - Fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.2A Single Link   | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| Performance - Fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions, DC HSDPA |                      |                      |
| requirements         |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.2B Single Link   | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| Performance - Fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions, 64QAM    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.3 Open Loop      | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| Diversity            |                      |                      |
| Performance - AWGN   |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.4 Open Loop      | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| Diversity            |                      |                      |
| Performance - Fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.5 Closed Loop    | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| Diversity            |                      |                      |
| Performance - AWGN   |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.6 Closed Loop    | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| Diversity            |                      |                      |
| Performance - Fading |                      |                      |
| propagation          |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7A, MIMO         | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Single stream fading |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7B MIMO          | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream fading   |                      |                      |
| conditions           |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7C MIMO          | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream fading   |                      |                      |
| conditions-- UE      |                      |                      |
| categories 19-20     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7D MIMO          | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream static   |                      |                      |
| orthogonal           |                      |                      |
| conditions -- UE     |                      |                      |
| categories 15-20     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7E MIMO          | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| performance          |                      |                      |
| --Reporting of       |                      |                      |
| Channel Quality      |                      |                      |
| indicator - Dual     |                      |                      |
| stream static        |                      |                      |
| orthogonal           |                      |                      |
| conditions -- UE     |                      |                      |
| categories 19-20     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7F MIMO          | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Single stream fading |                      |                      |
| conditions --        |                      |                      |
| Asymmetric CPICHs    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7G MIMO          | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream fading   |                      |                      |
| conditions --        |                      |                      |
| Asymmetric CPICHs    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7H MIMO          | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream fading   |                      |                      |
| conditions-- UE      |                      |                      |
| categories 19-20 --  |                      |                      |
| Asymmetric CPICHs    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7I MIMO          | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| performance --       |                      |                      |
| Reporting of Channel |                      |                      |
| Quality indicator -  |                      |                      |
| Dual stream static   |                      |                      |
| orthogonal           |                      |                      |
| conditions -- UE     |                      |                      |
| categories 15-20 --  |                      |                      |
| Asymmetric CPICHs    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.3.7J MIMO          | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| performance          |                      |                      |
| --Reporting of       |                      |                      |
| Channel Quality      |                      |                      |
| indicator - Dual     |                      |                      |
| stream static        |                      |                      |
| orthogonal           |                      |                      |
| conditions -- UE     |                      |                      |
| categories 19-20 --  |                      |                      |
| Asymmetric CPICHs    |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.5.1 HS-SCCH-less   | Same as 9.2.1A       | -6 dB                |
| demodulation of      |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH              |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.5.1A HS-SCCH-less  | Same as 9.2.1A       | -9 dB                |
| demodulation of      |                      |                      |
| HS-DSCH, Enhanced    |                      |                      |
| Performance          |                      |                      |
| Requirements Type 1  |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.6.1 Single link    | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| HS-DSCH Demodulation |                      |                      |
| performance in       |                      |                      |
| CELL\_FACH state     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| 9.6.2 Single link    | Same as 9.2.1A       |                      |
| HS-SCCH Detection    |                      |                      |
| performance in       |                      |                      |
| CELL\_FACH state     |                      |                      |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

F.5.6 Performance measurements (E-DCH)
--------------------------------------

Table F.5.6: Equipment accuracy for performance measurements (E-DCH)

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ -----------------
  Clause                                                                                                                                                                  Equipment accuracy       Test conditions
  10.2.1.1 Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) Single Link Performance (10 ms TTI)                                                                     E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -35.1 dB
  10.2.1.1A Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) Single Link Performance (10 ms TTI, Type 1)                                                            E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -38.3 dB
  10.2.1.2 Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) Single Link Performance (2 ms TTI)                                                                      E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -28.3 dB
  10.2.1.2A Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) Single Link Performance (2 ms TTI, Type 1)                                                             E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -31.7 dB
  10.2.2.1.1 Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover conditions -- RLS not containing the serving E-DCH cell (10 ms TTI)            E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -23.6 dB
  10.2.2.1.1A Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover conditions -- RLS not containing the serving E-DCH cell (10 ms TTI, Type 1)   E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -27.8 dB
  10.2.2.1.2 Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover conditions -- RLS not containing the serving E-DCH cell (2 ms TTI)             E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -16.3 dB
  10.2.2.1.2A Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover conditions -- RLS not containing the serving E-DCH cell (2 ms TTI, Type 1)    E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -20.7 dB
  10.2.2.2.1 Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover conditions -- RLS containing the serving E-DCH cell (10 ms TTI)                E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -29.7 dB
  10.2.2.2.1A Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover conditions -- RLS containing the serving E-DCH cell (10 ms TTI, Type 1)       E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -33.4 dB
  10.2.2.2.2 Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover conditions -- RLS containing the serving E-DCH cell (2 ms TTI)                 E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -23.2 dB
  10.2.2.2.2A Detection of E-DCH HARQ ACK Indicator Channel (E-HICH) in Inter-Cell handover conditions -- RLS containing the serving E-DCH cell (2 ms TTI, Type 1)        E-HICH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -27.1 dB
  10.3.1.1 Detection of E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH) Single Link Performance (10 ms TTI)                                                                         E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -31 dB
  10.3.1.1A Detection of E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH) Single Link Performance (10 ms TTI, Type 1)                                                                E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -35 dB
  10.3.1.2 Detection of E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH) Single Link Performance (2 ms TTI)                                                                          E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -24.4 dB
  10.3.1.2A Detection of E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH) Single Link Performance (2 ms TTI, Type 1)                                                                 E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -28.6 dB
  10.3.2 Detection of E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH) in Inter-Cell Handover conditions                                                                             E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -27.3 dB
  10.3.2A Detection of E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (E-RGCH) in Inter-Cell Handover conditions (Type 1)                                                                   E-RGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -31.2 dB
  10.4.1 Demodulation of E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel (E-AGCH) Single Link Performance                                                                                    E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -23.2 dB
  10.4.1A Demodulation of E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel (E-AGCH) Single Link Performance (Type 1)                                                                          E-AGCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -26.8 dB
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ -----------------

F.5.7 Performance measurements (MBMS)
-------------------------------------

Table F.5.7.1: Equipment accuracy for performance measurements (MBMS)

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- -------------------------
  Clause                                                                  Equipment accuracy        Test conditions
  11.2 Demodulation of MTCH                                               S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -4.9dB, -5.6dB, -8.5dB
  11.2A Demodulation of MTCH - Enhanced Performance Requirements Type 1   S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -7.7dB, -8.7dB, -11.5dB
  11.3 Demodulation of MTCH and cell identification                       S-CCPCH\_Ec/Ior ±0.1 dB   -5.6dB
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- -------------------------

F.6 General rules for statistical testing
=========================================

F.6.1 Statistical testing of receiver BER/BLER performance
----------------------------------------------------------

### F.6.1.1 Error Definition

1\) Bit Error Ratio (BER)

The Bit Error Ratio is defined as the ratio of the bits wrongly received
to all data bits sent. The bits are the information bits above the
convolutional/turbo decoder

2\) Block Error Ratio (BLER)

A Block Error Ratio is defined as the ratio of the number of erroneous
blocks received to the total number of blocks sent. An erroneous block
is defined as a Transport Block, the cyclic redundancy check (CRC) of
which is wrong.

### F.6.1.2 Test Method

Each test is performed in the following manner:

a\) Setup the required test conditions.

b\) Record the number of samples tested and the number of occurred
events (bit error or block error)

c\) Stop the test at a stop criterion which is minimum test time or an
early pass or an early fail event.

d\) Once the test is stopped decide according to the pass fail decision
rules ( subclause F.6.1.7)

### F.6.1.3 Test Criteria

The test shall fulfil the following requirements:

a\) good pass fail decision

1\) to keep reasonably low the probability (risk) of passing a bad unit
for each individual test;

2\) to have high probability of passing a good unit for each individual
test;

b\) good balance between test time and statistical significance

3\) to perform measurements with a high degree of statistical
significance;

4\) to keep the test time as low as possible.

### F.6.1.4 Calculation assumptions 

#### F.6.1.4.1 Statistical independence

\(a\) It is assumed, that error events are rare (lim BER BLER  0)
independent statistical events. However the memory of the convolutional
/turbo coder is terminated after one TTI. Samples and errors are summed
up every TTI. So the assumption of independent error events is
justified.

\(b\) In the BLER test with fading there is the memory of the multipath
fading channel which interferes the statistical independence. A minimum
test time is introduced to average fluctuations of the multipath fading
channel. So the assumption of independent error events is justified
approximately.

#### F.6.1.4.2 Applied formulas

The formulas, applied to describe the BER BLER test, are based on the
following experiments:

\(1\) After having observed a certain number of errors (**ne**) the
number of samples are counted to calculate BER BLER. Provisions are made
(note 1) such that the complementary experiment is valid as well:

\(2\) After a certain number of samples (**ns**) the number of errors,
occurred, are counted to calculate BER BLER.

Experiment (1) stipulates to use the following Chi Square Distribution
with degree of freedom ne: 2\*dchisq(2\*NE,2\*ne).

Experiment (2) stipulates to use the Poisson Distribution: dpois(ne,NE)

(NE: mean of the distribution)

To determine the early stop conditions, the following inverse cumulative
operation is applied:

0.5 \* qchisq(D,2\*ne). This is applicable for experiment (1) and (2).

D: wrong decision risk per test step

Note: other inverse cumulative operations are available, however only
this is suited for experiment (1) and (2).

#### F.6.1.4.3 Approximation of the distribution

The test procedure is as follows:

During a running measurement for a UE ns (number of samples) and ne
(number of errors) are accumulated and from this the preliminary BER
BLER is calculated. Then new samples up to the next error are taken. The
entire past and the new samples are basis for the next preliminary BER
BLER. Depending on the result at every step, the UE can pass, can fail
or must continue the test.

As early pass- and early fail-UEs leave the statistical totality under
consideration, the experimental conditions are changed every step
resulting in a distribution that is truncated more and more towards the
end of the entire test. Such a distribution can not any more be handled
analytically. The unchanged distribution is used as an approximation to
calculate the early fail and early pass bounds.

### F.6.1.5 Definition of good pass fail decision.

This is defined by the probability of wrong decision F at the end of the
test. The probability of a correct decision is 1-F.

The probability (risk) to fail a good DUT shall be ≤ F according to the
following definition: A DUT is failed, accepting a probability of ≤ F
that the DUT is still better than the specified error ratio (Test
requirement).

The probability to pass a bad DUT shall be ≤ F according to the
following definition: A DUT is passed, accepting a probability of ≤ F
that the DUT is still worse than M times the specified error ratio.
(M\>1 is the bad DUT factor).

This definitions lead to an early pass and an early fail limit:

Early fail: ber≥ berlim~fail~

$\text{ber}\text{lim}_{\text{fail}}(D,\text{ne}) = \frac{2 \ast \text{ne}}{\text{qchisq}(D,2 \ast \text{ne})}$
(1)

For ne≥ 7

Early pass: ber ≤berlimbad~pass~

$\text{ber}\text{lim}\text{bad}_{\text{pass}}(D,\text{ne}) = \frac{2 \ast \text{ne} \ast M}{\text{qchisq}(1 - D,2 \ast \text{ne})}$
(2)

For ne ≥1

With

ber (normalized BER,BLER): BER,BLER according to F.6.1.1 divided by Test
requirement

D: wrong decision probability for a test step. This is a numerically
evaluated fraction of F, the wrong decision probability at the end of
the test. See table F.6.1.6.1.

ne: Number of error events

M: bad DUT factor see table F.6.1.6.1.

qchisq: inverse cumulative chi squared distribution

### F.6.1.6 Good balance between test time and statistical significance

Three independent test parameters are introduced into the test and shown
in Table F.6.1.6.1. These are the obvious basis of test time and
statistical significance. From the first two of them four dependent test
parameters are derived. The third independent test parameter is
justified separately.

Table F.6.1.6.1 independent and dependent test parameters

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Ind      | D        |          |          |          |          |
| ependent | ependent |          |          |          |          |
| test     | test     |          |          |          |          |
| pa       | pa       |          |          |          |          |
| rameters | rameters |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Test     | Value    | R        | Test     | Value    | R        |
| P        |          | eference | p        |          | eference |
| arameter |          |          | arameter |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Bad DUT  | 1.5      | Table    | Early    | Curves   | S        |
| factor M |          | F.6.1.8  | p        |          | ubclause |
|          |          |          | ass/fail |          | F.6.1.5  |
|          |          |          | c        |          |          |
|          |          |          | ondition |          | Figure   |
|          |          |          |          |          | 6.1.9    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Final    | 0.2%     | S        | Target   | 345      | Table    |
| pro      |          | ubclause | number   |          | 6.1.8    |
| bability | 0.02%,   | F.6.1.5  | of error |          |          |
| of wrong | note 2   |          | events   |          |          |
| p        |          |          |          |          |          |
| ass/fail |          |          |          |          |          |
| decision |          |          |          |          |          |
| F        |          |          |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          | Pro      | 0.0085%  |          |
|          |          |          | bability |          |          |
|          |          |          | of wrong | 0.0008%  |          |
|          |          |          | p        | and      |          |
|          |          |          | ass/fail | 0.008%,  |          |
|          |          |          | decision | note 2   |          |
|          |          |          | per test |          |          |
|          |          |          | step D   |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
|          |          |          | Test     | 1.234    | Table    |
|          |          |          | limit    |          | 6.1.8    |
|          |          |          | factor   |          |          |
|          |          |          | TL       |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| Minimum  |          | Table    |          |          |          |
| test     |          | F        |          |          |          |
| time     |          | .6.1.6.2 |          |          |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

The minimum test time is derived from the following justification:

1\) For no propagation conditions and static propagation condition

No early fail calculated from fractional number of errors \<1 (see note
1)

2\) For multipath fading condition

No stop of the test until 990 wavelengths are crossed with the speed
given in the fading profile.

3\) For birth death propagation conditions

No stop of the test until 200 birth death transitions occur

4\) For moving propagation conditions: 628 sec

This is necessary in order to pass all potential critical points in the
moving propagation profile 4 times:

Maximum rake window

Maximum adjustment speed

Intersection of moving taps

5\) For high speed train conditions

This corresponds 4 complete cycles of approach and leave to and from a
BS antenna.

Table F.6.1.6.2 : minimum Test time

  -------------------------------- -------------------
  Fading profile                   Minimum test time
  Multipath propagation 3 km/h     164 sec
  Multipath propagation 30 km/h    16.4 sec
  Multipath propagation 50 km/h    9.8 sec
  Multipath propagation 120 km/h   4.1 sec
  Multipath propagation 250 km/h   2 sec
  Birth Death propagation          38.2 sec
  Moving propagation               628 sec
  High speed train conditions      28.8 sec
  -------------------------------- -------------------

In table F.6.1.8 the minimum test time is converted in minimum number of
samples.

### F.6.1.7 Pass fail decision rules

No decision is allowed before the minimum test time is elapsed.

1\) If minimum Test time \< time for target number of error events then
the following applies: The required confidence level 1-F (= correct
decision probability) shall be achieved. This is fulfilled at an early
pass or early fail event.

For BER:

For every TTI (Transmit Time Interval) sum up the number of bits (ns)
and the number if errors (ne) from the beginning of the test and
calculate

BER~1~ (including the artificial error at the beginning of the test
(Note 1))and

BER~0~ (excluding the artificial error at the beginning of the test
(Note 1)).

If BER~0~ is above the early fail limit, fail the DUT.

If BER~1~ is below the early pass limit, pass the DUT.

Otherwise continue the test

For BLER:

For every block sum up the number of blocks (ns) and the number of
erroneous blocks (ne) from the beginning of the test and calculate

BLER~1~ (including the artificial error at the beginning of the test
(Note 1))and

BLER~0~ (excluding the artificial error at the beginning of the test
(Note 1)).

If BLER~1~ is below the early pass limit, pass the DUT.

If BLER~0~ is above the early fail limit, fail the DUT.

Otherwise continue the test

2\) If the minimum test time ≥ time for target error events, then the
test runs for the minimum test time and the decision is done by
comparing the result with the test limit.

For BER:

For every TTI (Transmit Time Interval) sum up the number of bits (ns)
and the number if errors (ne) from the beginning of the test and
calculate BER~0~

For BLER:

For every block sum up the number of blocks (ns) and the number of
erroneous blocks (ne) from the beginning of the test and calculate
BLER~0~

If BER~0~/BLER~0~ is above the test limit, fail the DUT.

If BER~0~/BLER~0~ is on or below the test limit, pass the DUT.

### F.6.1.8 Test conditions for BER, BLER, RLC SDU Error Rate tests

Table F.6.1.8: Test conditions for a single BER/BLER tests

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Type of | Test    | **Test  | Target  | Minimum | Prob    | Bad     |
| test    | requ    | limit   | number  | number  | that    | unit    |
|         | irement | (BER    | of      | of      | good    | B       |
| (BER)   | (BE     | /BLER)= | error   | samples | unit    | ER/BLER |
|         | R/BLER) | Test    | events  |         | will    | factor  |
|         |         | requ    |         |         | fail    | M       |
|         |         | irement | (time)  |         |         |         |
|         |         | (BER    |         |         | = Prob  |         |
|         |         | /BLER)x |         |         | that    |         |
|         |         | TL**    |         |         | bad     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | unit    |         |
|         |         | **TL**  |         |         | will    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | pass    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | \[%\]   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Re      | 0.001   | 1.234   | 345     | Note 1  | 0.2     | 1.5     |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Sens    |         |         | (22.9s) |         |         |         |
| itivity |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Level   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Maximum | 0.001   | 1.234   | 345     | Note 1  | 0.2     | 1.5     |
| Input   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Level   |         |         | (22.9s) |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| A       | 0.001   | 1.234   | 345     | Note 1  | 0.2     | 1.5     |
| djacent |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Channel |         |         | (22.9s) |         |         |         |
| Sele    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ctivity |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| B       | 0.001   | 1.251   | 403     | Note 1  | 0.2     | 1.5     |
| locking |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C       |         |         | (26.4s) |         |         |         |
| haracte |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ristics |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Pass    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| co      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| B       | 0.001   | 1.251   | 403     | Note 1  | 0.02    | 1.5     |
| locking |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| C       |         |         | (26.4s) |         |         |         |
| haracte |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ristics |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Fail    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| co      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note 2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| S       | 0.001   | 1.234   | 345     | Note 1  | 0.2     | 1.5     |
| purious |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| R       |         |         | (22.9s) |         |         |         |
| esponse |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| I       | 0.001   | 1.234   | 345     | Note 1  | 0.2     | 1.5     |
| ntermod |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ulation |         |         | (22.9s) |         |         |         |
| C       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| haracte |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ristics |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| HS-SCCH | 0.05    | 1.234   | 345     | 27334   | 0.2     | 1.5     |
| De      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tection | 0.01    |         | (34s)   | 27334   |         |         |
| Perf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ormance |         |         | (168s)  |         |         |         |
| (PA3    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Prop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| agation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cond    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| itions) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| HS-SCCH | 0.01    | 1.234   | 345     | 2734    | 0.2     | 1.5     |
| De      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tection |         |         | (168s)  |         |         |         |
| Perf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ormance |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Prop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| agation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cond    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| itions) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Table F.6.1.8-2: Test conditions for BLER tests

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Type  | Info  | Test  | Test  | T     | Mi    | Prob  | Bad   |
| of    | rmati | r     | limit | arget | nimum | that  | unit  |
| test  | onBit | equir | (     | n     | n     | bad   | BER   |
|       | rate  | ement | BER/B | umber | umber | unit  | /BLER |
| (     |       | (BER/ | LER)= | of    | of    | will  | f     |
| BLER) |       | BLER) | Test  | error | sa    | pass  | actor |
|       |       |       | r     | e     | mples |       | M     |
|       |       |       | equir | vents |       | =     |       |
|       |       |       | ement |       |       | Prob  |       |
|       |       |       | (     | (     |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       | BER/B | time) |       | good  |       |
|       |       |       | LER)x |       |       | unit  |       |
|       |       |       | TL    |       |       | will  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | fail  |       |
|       |       |       | TL    |       |       | \[%\] |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| De    | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | Note1 | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| modul |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation | 64    | 0.1   |       | (559  |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| S     | 144   | 0.01  |       |       |       |       |       |
| tatic |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
| P     | 384   | 0.1   |       | .92s) |       |       |       |
| ropag |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       | 0.01  |       | (559  |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| tions |       | 0.1   |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.01  |       | .92s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (559  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (27   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .96s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (279  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .58s) |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| De    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| modul |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| DCH   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Multi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| -path |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| F     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ading |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| P     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ropag |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 3km/h | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | 8200  | 0.2   | 1.5   |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (Case | 64    | 0.1   |       | (559  | 8200  |       |       |
| 1,    |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| Case  | 144   | 0.01  |       |       | 8200  |       |       |
| 2,    |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
| Case  | 384   | 0.1   |       | .92s) | 8200  |       |       |
| 4)    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.01  |       | (559  | 8200  |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.1   |       |       | 16400 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.01  |       | .92s) | 16400 |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (559  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (27   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .96s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (279  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .58s) |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 120   | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | 205   | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| km/h  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 64    | 0.1   |       | (559  | 205   |       |       |
| (C    |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| ase3) | 144   | 0.01  |       |       | 205   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
|       | 384   | 0.1   |       | .92s) | 205   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.01  |       | (559  | 205   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.1   |       |       | 410   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.01  |       | .92s) | 410   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (559  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (27   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .96s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (279  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .58s) |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| 250   | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | 100   | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| km/h  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       | 64    | 0.1   |       | (559  | 100   |       |       |
| (Case |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| 6)    | 144   | 0.01  |       |       | 100   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
|       | 384   | 0.1   |       | .92s) | 100   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.01  |       | (559  | 100   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.1   |       |       | 200   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0.01  |       | .92s) | 200   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (559  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (27   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .96s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (279  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .58s) |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| De    | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | 31400 | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| modul |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation | 64    | 0.01  |       | (55   | 31400 |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       | 9.16) |       |       |       |
| DCH   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| M     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| oving |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| P     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ropag |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| De    | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | 1910  | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| modul |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation | 64    | 0.01  |       | (559  | 1910  |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| DCH   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       | (559  |       |       |       |
| B     |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| irth- |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Death |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| P     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ropag |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| De    | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | 1440  | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| modul |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       | (559  |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| DCH   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| high  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| speed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| train |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| condi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tions |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| De    | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | 8200  | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| modul |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       | (559  |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| DCH   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Base  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| St    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Tra   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nsmit |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dive  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rsity |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| modes |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (3    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| km/h, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ase1) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| De    | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | 8200  | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| modul |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation | 12.2  | 0.01  |       | (559  | 8200  |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| DCH   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       | (559  |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| losed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| loop  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tra   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| nsmit |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| dive  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rsity |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mode  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| (3    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| km/h, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ase1) |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Mode  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 1     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Mode  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| 2     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| De    | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | 8200  | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| modul |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       | 9.16) |       |       |       |
| DCH   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Site  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Sele  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ction |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Dive  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rsity |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Tr    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ansmi |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ssion |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Power |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Co    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ntrol |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mode  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| De    | 12.2  | 0.01  | 1.234 | 345   | 205   | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| modul |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ation | 64    | 0.1   |       | (559  | 205   |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| DCH   | 144   | 0.01  |       |       | 205   |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
| Inter | 384   | 0.1   |       | .92s) | 205   |       |       |
| -Cell |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| Soft  |       | 0.01  |       | (559  | 205   |       |       |
| Han   |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
| dover |       | 0.1   |       |       | 410   |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (55   |       |       |       |
| (120  |       | 0.01  |       | .92s) | 410   |       |       |
| km/h, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       | (559  |       |       |       |
| ase3) |       |       |       | .16s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (27   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .96s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (279  |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | .58s) |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Comb  |       |       |       | Not   |       |       |       |
| ining |       |       |       | appli |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       | cable |       |       |       |
| TPC   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| com   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mands |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| from  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| radio |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| links |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| of    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| diff  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| erent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| radio |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| link  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sets  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Power |       |       |       | Not   |       |       |       |
| co    |       |       |       | appli |       |       |       |
| ntrol |       |       |       | cable |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| down  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| link, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| BLER  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| arget |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Power |       |       |       | Not   |       |       |       |
| co    |       |       |       | appli |       |       |       |
| ntrol |       |       |       | cable |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| down  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| link, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| itial |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| c     |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| onver |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| gence |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Power |       |       |       | Not   |       |       |       |
| co    |       |       |       | appli |       |       |       |
| ntrol |       |       |       | cable |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| down  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| link, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| wind  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| up    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| ef    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fects |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Power |       |       |       | Not   |       |       |       |
| co    |       |       |       | appli |       |       |       |
| ntrol |       |       |       | cable |       |       |       |
| in    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| down  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| link, |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| diff  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| erent |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sport |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| fo    |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| rmats |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Dow   |       |       |       | Not   |       |       |       |
| nlink |       |       |       | appli |       |       |       |
| compr |       |       |       | cable |       |       |       |
| essed |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| mode  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Blind | S     | BLER  | 1.234 | 345   | Note  | 0.2   | 1.5   |
| tran  | tatic | FDR   |       |       | 1     |       |       |
| sport |       |       |       | BLER  | Note  |       |       |
| f     | 12.2  | 1     |       | FDR   | 1     |       |       |
| ormat |       | 0^-2^ |       |       | Note  |       |       |
| dete  | 7.95  | 1     |       | 55    | 1     |       |       |
| ction |       | 0^-4^ |       | 9.16s |       |       |       |
|       | 1.95  |       |       | 9     | 205   |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       | 32min |       |       |       |
|       | Mult  | 0^-2^ |       |       | 205   |       |       |
|       | ipath | 1     |       | 55    |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0^-4^ |       | 9.16s | 205   |       |       |
|       | 12.2  |       |       | 9     |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       | 32min |       |       |       |
|       | 7.95  | 0^-2^ |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       | 55    |       |       |       |
|       | 1.98  | 0^-4^ |       | 9.16s |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 9     |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       | 32min |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0^-2^ |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       | 55    |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0^-4^ |       | 9.16s |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 9     |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       | 32min |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0^-2^ |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       | 55    |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0^-4^ |       | 9.16s |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 9     |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       | 32min |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0^-2^ |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       | 1     |       | 55    |       |       |       |
|       |       | 0^-4^ |       | 9.16s |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 9     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 32min |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

Table F.6.1.8-3: Test conditions for RLC SDU Error Rate (SDU ER) tests

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Type of | Test    | **Test  | Target  | Minimum | Prob    | Bad     |
| test    | requ    | limit   | number  | number  | that    | unit    |
|         | irement | (**SDU  | of      | of      | good    | SDU ER  |
| (SDU    | (SDU    | ER**)=  | error   | samples | unit    | factor  |
| ER)     | ER)     | Test    | events  |         | will    | M       |
|         |         | requ    |         |         | fail    |         |
|         |         | irement |         |         |         |         |
|         |         | (**SDU  |         |         | = Prob  |         |
|         |         | ER**)x  |         |         | that    |         |
|         |         | TL**    |         |         | bad     |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | unit    |         |
|         |         | **TL**  |         |         | will    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | pass    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | \[%\]   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Cell    | 0.04    | 1.236   | NA      | NA      | 5%      | 1.5     |
| re-se   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| lection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| during  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| an MBMS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ession, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UTRAN   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and 2   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| GSM     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cells   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| present |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| list    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         | The SDU |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ER test |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | e       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | mbedded |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Cell    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rese    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lection |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | delay   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | test    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and its |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | test    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | uration |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | depends |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | on the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | test    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | uration |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | delay   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | test.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | During  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cell    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rese    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lection |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | delay   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | test    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | more    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | samples |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | than    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ne      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cessary |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | stat    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | istical |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | signi   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ficance |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ge      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nerated |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | SDU ER  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | test.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (approx |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | factor  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 50).    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Hence,  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | after   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | final   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | isation |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | delay   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | test,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the SDU |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ER test |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | decided |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | against |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | test    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | limit:  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.04    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | \*1.236 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | =0.0495 |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

### F.6.1.9 Practical Use (informative)

See figure F.6.1.9:

The early fail limit represents formula (1) in F.6.1.5. The range of
validity is ne≥7, ≥8 in case of blocking test to ne =345

The early pass limit represents the formula (2) in F.6.1.5. The range of
validity is ne=1 to ne =345. See note 1

The intersection co-ordinates of both curves are : number of errors ne =
345 and test limit TL = 1.234.

The range of validity for TL is ne\>345.

A typical BER BLER test, calculated form the number of samples and
errors (F.6.1.2.(b)) using experimental method (1) or (2) (see F.6.1.4.
calculation assumptions) runs along the yellow trajectory. With an
errorless sample the trajectory goes down vertically. With an erroneous
sample it jumps up right. The tester checks if the BER BLER test
intersects the early fail or early pass limits. The real time processing
can be reduced by the following actions:

BLER~0~ (excluding the artificial error at the beginning of the test
(Note 1)). is calculated only in case of an error event.

BER~0~ (excluding the artificial error at the beginning of the test
(Note 1)). is calculated only in case of an error event within a TTI.

So the early fail limit cannot be missed by errorless samples.

The check against the early pass limit may be done by transforming
formula (2) in F.6.1.5 such that the tester checks against a
[L]{.underline}imit-[N]{.underline}umber-of-samples ( NL(ne)) depending
on the current number of errors (including the artificial error at the
beginning of the test (Note 1)).

Early pass if

TR: test requirement (0.001)

Figure F.6.1.9

NOTE 1: At the beginning of the test, an artificial error is introduced.
This ensures that an ideal DUT meets the valid range of the early pass
limit. In addition this ensures that the complementary experiment
(F.6.1.4. bullet point (2)) is applicable as well.

> For the check against the early fail limit the artificial erroneous
> sample, introduced at the beginning of the test , is disregarded.

Due to the nature of the test, namely discrete error events, the early
fail condition shall not be valid, when fractional errors \<1 are used
to calculate the early fail limit: Any early fail decision is postponed
until number of errors ne ≥ 7. In the blocking test any early fail
decision is postponed until number of errors ne ≥ 8.

NOTE 2: F= 0.2% is intended to be used for a test containing a few
BER/BLER tests (e.g. receiver sensitivity is repeated 12 times). For a
test containing many BER/BLER tests (e.g. blocking test) this value is
not appropriate for a single BER/BLER test.

The blocking test contains approx. 12750 single BER tests. A DUT on the
limit will fail approx. 25 to 26 times due to statistical reasons (wrong
decision probability at the end of the test F= 0.2 %). 24 fails are
allowed in the blocking test but they are reserved for spurious
responses. This shall be solved by the following rule:

All passes (based on F=0.2%) are accepted, including the wrong decisions
due to statistical reasons.

An early fail limit based on F=0.02% instead of 0.2% is established,
that ensures that wrong decisions due to statistical reasons are reduced
to 2 to 3.

These asymmetric test conditions ensure that a DUT on the test limit
consumes hardly more test time for a blocking test than in the symmetric
case and on the other hand discriminates sufficiently between
statistical fails and spurious response cases.

### F.6.1.10 Dual limit BLER tests

This annex is applicable for subclause 7.8.1, 7.8.1A and 7.8.1B Power
control in the downlink constant BLER target, subclause 7.8.4 and 7.8.4A
Power control in the downlink, different transport formats and subclause
7.9 Downlink compressed mode. In this tests the BLER shall stay between
two limits.

Table F.6.1.10. Parameters for single and dual limit BLER

**Parameters for single limit Parameters for dual limits**

Specified BLER \* 1.3 (upper test requirement)

Specified BER BLER

Specified BLER \* 0.7 (lower test requirement)

Bad DUT BLER \*1.3

Bad DUT BER BLER

Bad DUT BLER \*0.7

Upper Test limit

Test limit

Lower Test limit

Fail\_high

Early fail and Pass\_high

Early pass Pass\_low

Fail\_low

![](media/image62.png){width="6.295138888888889in"
height="4.363194444444445in"}

Figure F.6.1.10: Dual limit BLER

#### F.6.1.10.1 Description of the parameters for dual limit BLER tests

(refer figure F.6.1.10)

##### The origin {#the-origin .H6}

1 (black horizontal line in the centre): this is the normalised origin
BLER

##### The asymptotes {#the-asymptotes .H6}

1.3 (red horizontal line): this is the specified upper limit of the
range (BLER +30%) (upper test requirement)

0.7(blue horizontal line): this is the specified lower limit of the
range (BLER-30%)(lower test requirement)

1.3\*M (black horizontal line): this is M times the specified upper
limit of the range (Bad DUT BLER)

0.7/M (brown horizontal line): this is 1/M times the specified lower
limit. (Bad DUT BLER)

##### The pass/fail limits {#the-passfail-limits .H6}

Fail\_high (bold red curve ):

Definition: A momentary BLER value above this curve is with high
probability above the specified upper limit: BLER +30%.

Verdict: Above: Fail due to bad BLER

Below: continue

It approaches towards 1.3(red).

Validity range 7\< errors \<345.

Formula:

![](media/image63.wmf){width="2.0930555555555554in"
height="0.3854166666666667in"}

Fail\_low (bold blue curve):

Definition: A momentary BLER value below this curve is with high
probability below the specified lower limit: BLER -30%).

Verdict: Above: continue

Below: Fail due to too good BLER

It approaches towards 0.7(blue).

Validity range 1≤ errors \<343.

Formula:

![](media/image64.wmf){width="2.2597222222222224in"
height="0.38472222222222224in"}

Pass\_high (bold black curve):

Definition: a momentary BLER value on and below this curve is with high
probability below M times the specified upper limit.

Verdict: Above: continue

Below: pass for ne ≥ 29

continue for ne \< 29

It approaches 1.3\*M(black).

Validity range 1≤ errors \<345.

Formula:

![](media/image65.wmf){width="2.7715277777777776in"
height="0.3854166666666667in"}

Pass\_low (bold brown curve):

Definition: a momentary BLER value on and above this curve is with high
probability above 1/M times the specified lower limit of the range.

Verdict: Above: pass for ne ≥ 29,

continue for ne \< 29

Below: continue

It approaches 0.7/M(brown).

Validity range 7\< errors \<343.

![](media/image66.wmf){width="2.1347222222222224in" height="0.59375in"}

Legend formulas:

D: wrong decision risk per test step: 0.000085

M: bad DUT factor: 1.5

ne: number of errors

qchisq: inverse cumulative chi square function

**Upper test limit (boarder between pink and green)1.3\*1.234 = 1.6**

Validity range: 345 ≤ errors.

Verdict: Above: fail due to bad BLER

Below: pass

**Lower test limit (boarder between green and orange) 0.7/1.234 =
0.567**

Validity range: 343 ≤ errors

Verdict: Above: pass

Below: fail due to too good BLER

##### The intersection co-ordinates: {#the-intersection-co-ordinates .H6}

Fail\_high (bold red curve ) and Pass\_high (bold black curve):

Upper target number of errors (345) and upper test limit: 1.3\* 1.234

Fail\_low (bold blue curve) and Pass\_high (bold black curve):

Lower target number of errors (343) and lower test limit: 0.7 / 1.234

Pass\_high (bold black curve) and Pass\_low (bold brown curve)

Minimum number of errors (29) and optimum normalised BLER (1.049)

##### The ranges:  {#the-ranges .H6}

Range( pink): in this range the measurement can be stopped and the DUT
is failed due to too high BLER.

Range (orange): in this range the measurement can be stopped and the DUT
is failed due to too low BLER.

Range (yellow): in this range the measurement is undecided and must be
continued.

Range (green): in this range the measurement can be stopped and the DUT
is passed. No final BLER result is achieved.

#### F.6.1.10.2 Pass fail decision rules

No decision is allowed before the minimum test time (Table F.6.1.6.2)
has elapsed

1\) If minimum Test time \< time for target number of error events then
the following applies: The required confidence level 1-F (= correct
decision probability, Table F.6.1.6.2) shall be achieved. This is
fulfilled at

> *fail\_high*
>
> *pass\_high*
>
> *pass\_low*
>
> *fail\_low*

For every block sum up the number of blocks (ns) and the number of
erroneous blocks (ne) from the beginning of the test and calculate

BLER~1~ (including the artificial error at the beginning of the test
(Note 1, F.6.1.9))and

BLER~0~ (excluding the artificial error at the beginning of the test
(Note 1, F.6.1.9)).

If BLER~0~ is above *fail\_high,* fail the test due to too bad BLER

If BLER~1~ is below *fail\_low*, fail the test due to too good BLER

If BLER~0~ is on or below *fail\_high* and if BLER~1~ is above
*pass\_high*, continue the test

If BLER~0~ is below *pass\_low* and if BLER~1~ is above or on *fail
low*, continue the test

If BLER~1~ is below or on *pass\_high* and if BLER~0~ is on or above
*pass\_low*, pass the test

2\) If the minimum test time ≥ time for target error events, then the
test runs for the minimum test time and the decision is done by
comparing the result with the upper and lower test limit.

If BLER~0~ is above the upper test limit, fail the DUT due to too bad
BLER

If BLER~1~ is below the lower test limit, fail the DUT due to too good
BLER

If BLER~0~ is on or below the upper test limit and if BLER~1~ is on or
above the lower test limit, pass the DUT

#### F.6.1.10.3 Test conditions for dual limit BLER tests

Table F.6.1.10.3: Test conditions for dual limit BLER tests

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Type  | Data  | Test  | Test  | T     | Mi    | Prob  | Bad   |
| of    | rate, | r     | limit | arget | nimum | that  | unit  |
| test  | P     | equir | =     | n     | n     | a     | f     |
| (     | ropag | ement | Test  | umber | umber | good  | actor |
| BLER) | ation |       | r     | of    | of    | unit  |       |
|       | cond  | (     | equir | error | sa    | will  | M     |
|       | ition | BLER) | ement | e     | mples | fail  |       |
|       |       |       | \* TL | vents |       | =     |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       | prob  |       |
|       |       |       | TL    | time) |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a bad |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | will  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pass: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | F     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \[%\] |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Power | 12.2  | 0.0   | Upper | U     | 8200  | 0.2   | U     |
| co    | kb    | 1±30% | TL:   | pper: |       |       | pper: |
| ntrol | it/s, |       | 1.3\* | 345   |       |       | 1.5   |
| in    |       | 0.    | 1.234 |       |       |       |       |
| the   | 3km/h | 1±30% |       | (431  |       |       | Lower |
| down  | (c    |       | Lower | .25s) |       |       | 1/1.5 |
| link, | ase4) | 0.00  | TL    |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       | 1±30% | 0.7/  | (43s) |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       | 1.234 |       |       |       |       |
| BLER  |       |       |       | (4    |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       | 311s) |       |       |       |
| arget |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Lower |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 343   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 191s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 119s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (11   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 946s) |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Power | 64    | 0.0   | Upper | U     | 32800 | 0.2   | U     |
| co    | kb    | 1±30% | TL:   | pper: |       |       | pper: |
| ntrol | it/s, |       | 1.3\* | 345   |       |       | 1.5   |
| in    | 3km/h | 0.    | 1.234 |       |       |       |       |
| the   | (c    | 1±30% |       | (431  |       |       | Lower |
| down  | ase4) |       | Lower | .25s) |       |       | 1/1.5 |
| link, |       | 0.00  | TL    |       |       |       |       |
| con   |       | 1±30% | 0.7/  | (43s) |       |       |       |
| stant |       |       | 1.234 |       |       |       |       |
| BLER  |       |       |       | (4    |       |       |       |
| t     |       |       |       | 311s) |       |       |       |
| arget |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | Lower |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 343   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 191s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 119s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (11   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 946s) |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Dow   | 1     | 0.0   | Upper | U     | 8200  | 0.2   | U     |
| nlink | 2.2kb | 1±30% | TL:   | pper: |       |       | pper: |
| compr | it/s, |       | 1.3\* | 345   |       |       | 1.5   |
| essed |       |       | 1.234 |       |       |       |       |
| mode  | 3km/h |       |       | (431  |       |       | Lower |
|       |       |       | Lower | .25s) |       |       | 1/1.5 |
|       | (case |       | TL    |       |       |       |       |
|       | 2)    |       | 0.7/  | Lower |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1.234 | 343   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 191s) |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Power | 12.2  | 0.0   | Upper | U     | 8200  | 0.2   | U     |
| co    | kb    | 1±30% | TL:   | pper: |       |       | pper: |
| ntrol | it/s, |       | 1.3\* | 345   |       |       | 1.5   |
| in    | 3km/h |       | 1.234 |       |       |       |       |
| the   |       |       |       | (431  |       |       | Lower |
| down  | 0     |       | Lower | .25s) |       |       | 1/1.5 |
| link, | kb    |       | TL    |       |       |       |       |
| diff  | it/s, |       | 0.7/  | Lower |       |       |       |
| erent | 3km/h |       | 1.234 | 343   |       |       |       |
| tran  |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
| sport | (case |       |       | (1    |       |       |       |
| fo    | 4)    |       |       | 191s) |       |       |       |
| rmats |       |       |       |       |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

#### F.6.1.10.4 Test conditions for dual limit TPC Command Error Rate tests

Table F.6.1.10.4: Test conditions for dual limit TPC Command Error Rate
tests

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Type  | TPC   | Test  | Test  | T     | Mi    | Prob  | Bad   |
| of    | Co    | r     | limit | arget | nimum | that  | unit  |
| test  | mmand | equir | =     | n     | n     | a     | f     |
|       | Error | ement | Test  | umber | umber | good  | actor |
| (TPC  | Rate, |       | r     | of    | of    | unit  |       |
| Co    | P     | (TPC  | equir | error | sa    | will  | M     |
| mmand | ropag | Co    | ement | e     | mples | fail  |       |
| Error | ation | mmand | \* TL | vents |       | =     |       |
| Rate) | cond  | Error |       | (     |       | prob  |       |
|       | ition | Rate) | TL    | time) |       | that  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | a bad |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | unit  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | will  |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | pass: |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | F     |       |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | \[%\] |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
| Power | 15    | 0.0   | Upper | U     | 2     | 0.2   | U     |
| co    | 00TPC | 1±50% | TL:   | pper: | 46000 |       | pper: |
| ntrol | 's/s, |       |       | 345   |       |       | 1.5   |
| in    | 3km/h | 0.0   | 1.5\* |       | (     |       |       |
| the   | (c    | 5±30% | 1.234 | (12.  | 164\* |       | Lower |
| dow   | ase4) |       |       | 425s) | 1500) |       | 1/1.5 |
| nlink |       |       | 6.5\* |       |       |       |       |
| for   |       |       | 1.234 | (2.   |       |       |       |
| F     |       |       |       | 485s) |       |       |       |
| -DPCH |       |       | Lower |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | TL    | L     |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | ower: |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 0.5/  | 343   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1.234 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (37   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 3.5/  | .06s) |       |       |       |
|       |       |       | 1.234 |       |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | (7.   |       |       |       |
|       |       |       |       | 412s) |       |       |       |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

F.6.2 Statistical testing of RRM delay performance
--------------------------------------------------

### F.6.2.1 Test Method

Each test is performed in the following manner:

a\) Setup the required test conditions.

b\) Measure the delay repeated times. Start each repetition after
sufficient time, such that each delay test is independent from the
previous one. The delay-times, measured, are simplified to:

a good delay, if the measured delay is ≤ limit.

a bad delay, if the measured delay is \> limit

c\) Record the number of delays (ns), tested, and the number of bad
delays (ne)

d\) Stop the test at an early pass or an early fail event.

e\) Once the test is stopped, decide according to the pass fail decision
rules ( subclause F.6.2.7)

### F.6.2.2 Bad Delay Ratio (ER)

The Bad Delay Ratio (ER) is defined as the ratio of bad delays (ne) to
all delays (ns).

(1-ER is the success ratio)

### F.6.2.3 Test Criteria

The test shall fulfil the following requirements:

a\) good pass fail decision

1\) to keep reasonably low the probability (risk) of passing a bad unit
for each individual test;

2\) to have high probability of passing a good unit for each individual
test;

b\) good balance between test-time and statistical significance

3\) to perform measurements with a high degree of statistical
significance;

4\) to keep the test time as low as possible.

### F.6.2.4 Calculation assumptions 

#### F.6.2.4.1 Statistical independence

It is arranged by test conditions, that bad delays are independent
statistical events.

#### F.6.2.4.2 Applied formulas

The specified ER is 10% in most of the cases. This stipulates to use the
binomial distribution to describe the RRM delay statistics. With the
binomial distribution optimal results can be achieved. However the
inverse cumulative operation for the binomial distribution is not
supported by standard mathematical tools. The use of the Poisson or Chi
Square Distribution requires ER0. Using one of this distributions
instead of the binomial distribution gives sub-optimal results in the
conservative sense: a pass fail decision is done later than optimal and
with a lower wrong decision risk than predefined.

The formulas, applied to describe the RRM delay statistics test, are
based on the following experiment:

\(1\) After having observed a certain number of bad delays (**ne**) the
number of all delays (**ns**) are counted to calculate ER. Provisions
are made (note 1) such that the complementary experiment is valid as
well:

\(2\) After a certain number of delays (**ns**) the number of bad delays
(**ne**), occurred, are counted to calculate ER.

Experiment (1) stipulates to use the Chi Square Distribution with degree
of freedom ne: 2\*dchisq(2\*NE,2\*ne).

Experiment (2) stipulates to use the Poisson Distribution: dpois(ne,NE)

(NE: mean value of the distribution)

To determine the early stop conditions, the following inverse cumulative
operation is applied:

0.5 \* qchisq(D,2\*ne) for experiment (1) and (2)

D: wrong decision risk per test step

NOTE: Other inverse cumulative operations are available, however only
this is suited for experiment (1) and (2).

#### F.6.2.4.3 Approximation of the distribution

The test procedure is as follows:

During a running measurement for a UE ns (Number of Delays) and ne
(Number of bad delays) are accumulated and from this the preliminary ER
is calculated. Then new samples up to the next bad delay are taken. The
entire past and the new samples are basis for the next preliminary ER.
Depending on the result at every step, the UE can pass, can fail or must
continue the test.

As early pass- and early fail-UEs leave the statistical totality under
consideration, the experimental conditions are changed every step
resulting in a distribution that is truncated more and more towards the
end of the entire test. Such a distribution can not any more be handled
analytically. The unchanged distribution is used as an approximation to
calculate the early fail and early pass bounds.

### F.6.2.5 Definition of good pass fail decision

This is defined by the probability of wrong decision F at the end of the
test. The probability of a correct decision is 1- F.

The probability (risk) to fail a good DUT shall be ≤ F according to the
following definition: A DUT is failed, accepting a probability of ≤ F
that the DUT is still better than the specified bad delay ratio (Test
requirement).

The probability (risk) to pass a bad DUT shall be ≤ F according to the
following definition: A DUT is passed, accepting a probability of ≤ F
that the DUT is still worse than M times the specified bad delay ratio.
(M\>=1 is the bad DUT factor).

This definitions lead to an early pass and an early fail limit:

Early fail: er≥ er**lim**~fail~

$\text{er}\text{lim}_{\text{fail}}(D,\text{ne}) = \frac{2 \ast \text{ne}}{\text{qchisq}(D,2 \ast \text{ne})}$
(1)

For ne ≥ 5

Early pass: er ≤ er**lim**bad~pass~

$\text{er}\text{lim}\text{bad}_{\text{pass}}(D,\text{ne}) = \frac{2 \ast \text{ne} \ast M}{\text{qchisq}(1 - D,2 \ast \text{ne})}$
(2)

For ne ≥1

With

er (normalized ER): ER according to F.6.2.2 divided by specified ER

D: wrong decision probability for a test step. This is a numerically
evaluated fraction of F, the wrong decision probability at the end of
the test. see table F.6.2.6.1

ne: Number of bad delays

M: bad DUT factor see table F.6.2.6.1

qchisq: inverse cumulative chi squared distribution

### F.6.2.6 Good balance between test-time and statistical significance

Two independent test parameters are introduced into the test and shown
in Table F.6.2.6.1. These are the obvious basis of test time and
statistical significance. From them four dependent test parameters are
derived.

Table F.6.2.6 independent and dependent test parameters

+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+----------+
| Ind      | D        |          |          |         |          |
| ependent | ependent |          |          |         |          |
| test     | test     |          |          |         |          |
| pa       | pa       |          |          |         |          |
| rameters | rameters |          |          |         |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+----------+
| Test     | Value    | R        | Test     | Value   | R        |
| P        |          | eference | p        |         | eference |
| arameter |          |          | arameter |         |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+----------+
| Bad DUT  | 1.5      | Table    | Early    | Curves  | S        |
| factor M |          | F.6.1.8  | p        |         | ubclause |
|          |          |          | ass/fail |         | F.6.2.5  |
|          |          |          | c        |         |          |
|          |          |          | ondition |         | Figure   |
|          |          |          |          |         | 6.2.9    |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+----------+
| Final    | 5%       | Table    | Target   | 154     | Table    |
| pro      |          | F.6.2.8  | number   |         | 6.2.8    |
| bability |          |          | of bad   |         |          |
| of wrong |          |          | delays   |         |          |
| p        |          |          |          |         |          |
| ass/fail |          |          |          |         |          |
| decision |          |          |          |         |          |
| F        |          |          |          |         |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+----------+
|          |          |          | Pro      | 0.6 %   |          |
|          |          |          | bability |         |          |
|          |          |          | of wrong |         |          |
|          |          |          | p        |         |          |
|          |          |          | ass/fail |         |          |
|          |          |          | decision |         |          |
|          |          |          | per test |         |          |
|          |          |          | step D   |         |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+----------+
|          |          |          | Test     | 1.236\] | Table    |
|          |          |          | limit    |         | 6.2.8    |
|          |          |          | factor   |         |          |
|          |          |          | TL       |         |          |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------+----------+

### F.6.2.7 Pass fail decision rules

The required confidence level 1-F (= correct decision probability) shall
be achieved. This is fulfilled at an early pass or early fail event. Sum
up the number of all delays (ns) and the number of bad delays from the
beginning of the test and calculate:

> ER~1~ (including the artificial error at the beginning of the test
> (Note 1))and
>
> ER~0~ (excluding the artificial error at the beginning of the test
> (Note 1)).
>
> If ER~0~ is on or above the early fail limit, fail the DUT.
>
> If ER~1~ is on or below the early pass limit, pass the DUT.

Otherwise continue the test

### F.6.2.8 Test conditions for RRM delay tests, Combining of TPC commands test 1, Demodulation of Paging channel and Detection of acquisition indicator tests and UE measurement performance tests.

NOTE: Statistical independence of the tests below need to be considered:

In test 7.7.2 the statistical independency of the samples is given:
Power control algorithm 1 is used. Hence the TPC commands represent
directly the TPC reception. The TPC bit patterns are independent.

In test 7.7.3 the statistical independency of the samples is FFS

Test 7.11 the statistical independency of the samples is given: A paging
message is an independent sample, since channel-coding, introducing
dependency, is terminated after one message.

The same holds for Test 7.12

The delay tests in clause 8 up to clause 8.6 use independent samples.
This is ensured by changing the scenario or reset the UE in between the
samples.

In clause 8.7 the UE reports measurements. In between the reports the
scenario keeps constant and the UE continues its measurement. It is
unknown, whether the UE re-uses knowledge from the previous reports for
the next report (intentionally or unintentionally). Hence it is unknown,
whether the samples in the test are independent or not. Independent
samples allow the usage of the theory in clause F.6.2.1 to F.6.2.7.
Dependent samples could result in a distribution which is wider or
narrower, compared to the equivalent independent distribution. In this
situation statistical independency of the samples is **assumed** and the
theory described in clause F.6.2.1 to F.6.2.7 is re-used.

Table F.6.2.8: Test conditions for a single RRM delay tests, Combining
of TPC commands test 1, Demodulation of Paging channel and Detection of
Acquisition indicator tests and UE measurement performance tests.

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Type of | Test    | Test    | Test    | Target  | Prob    | Bad     |
| test    | requ    | requ    | lim     | number  | that    | unit    |
|         | irement | irement | it(ER)= | of bad  | good    | factor  |
|         |         | (ER=    |         | results | unit    | M       |
|         |         | 1-      | Test    |         | will    |         |
|         |         | success | requ    |         | fail    |         |
|         |         | ratio)  | irement |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (ER)x   |         | = Prob  |         |
|         |         |         | TL      |         | that    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | bad     |         |
|         |         |         | TL      |         | unit    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | will    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | pass    |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | \[%\]   |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 7.7.2   | 99%     | 0.01    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Co      | success |         |         |         |         |         |
| mbining | ratio   |         |         |         |         |         |
| of TPC  | for     |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       | power   |         |         |         |         |         |
| ommands | control |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test 1  | s       |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | equence |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 7.7.2A  | 99%     | 0.01    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Co      | success |         |         |         |         |         |
| mbining | ratio   |         |         |         |         |         |
| of TPC  | for     |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       | power   |         |         |         |         |         |
| ommands | control |         |         |         |         |         |
| when    | s       |         |         |         |         |         |
| (       | equence |         |         |         |         |         |
| DL\_DCH |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \_FET\_ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Config) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| by      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| higher  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| layers  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test 1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 7.7.3   | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Co      | success |         |         |         |         |         |
| mbining | ratio   |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      | for     |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       | power   |         |         |         |         |         |
| eliable | control |         |         |         |         |         |
| TPC     | s       |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       | equence |         |         |         |         |         |
| ommands |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| from    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| radio   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| links   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| di      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| fferent |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| radio   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| link    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sets    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 7.7.3A  | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Co      | success |         |         |         |         |         |
| mbining | ratio   |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      | for     |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       | power   |         |         |         |         |         |
| eliable | control |         |         |         |         |         |
| TPC     | s       |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       | equence |         |         |         |         |         |
| ommands |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| from    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| radio   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| links   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| di      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| fferent |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| radio   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| link    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sets    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| when    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| DL\_DC  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| H\_FET\ |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| _Config |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| \[10\]  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| figured |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| by      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| higher  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| layers  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 7.11    | 1%      | 0.01    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Demod   | missed  |         |         |         |         |         |
| ulation | paging  |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Paging  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Channel |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (PCH)   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 7.12    | 1%      | 0.01    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| De      | false   |         |         |         |         |         |
| tection | alarm   |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Acqu    | 99%     |         |         |         |         |         |
| isition | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      | de      |         |         |         |         |         |
| dicator | tection |         |         |         |         |         |
| (AI).   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 7.12A   | 99.5%   | 0.005   | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| De      | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| tection | de      |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      | tection |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Acqu    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| isition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| In      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dicator |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (E-AI)  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.2.2   | 8s      | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Cell    | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| rese    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| lection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.2.3.1 | 27.9s   | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| UTRAN   | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| to GSM  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| resel   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ection, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cenario |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.2.3.2 | 9.6s    | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| UTRAN   | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| to GSM  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| resel   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ection, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cenario |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.2.3.3 | 39.6s   | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| UTRAN   | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| to GSM  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| resel   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ection, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cenario |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.2.4   | 8s      | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| FDD/TDD | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| Cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rese    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| lection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.3.1   | NA      |         |         |         |         |         |
| FDD/FDD |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Soft    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| h       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| andover |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.3.2   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| FDD/FDD |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Hard    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| H       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| andover |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.3.2.1 | 190 ms  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| H       | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| andover |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| intra   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| fr      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.3.2.2 | 220 ms  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| FDD/FDD | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| Hard    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| H       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| andover |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| inter   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| fr      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.3.4   | 100 ms  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Inter   | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| -system |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| H       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| andover |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| from    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UTRAN   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to GSM  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.3.6.3 | 4.65 s  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Cell    | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| re-se   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| lection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| during  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| an MBMS |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ession, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| one     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UTRAN   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| i       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nter-fr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and 2   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| GSM     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cells   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| present |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ne      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ighbour |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| list    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.3.8   | 75 ms,  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Serving | 85 ms   |         |         |         |         |         |
| HS-DSCH | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| change  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.3.9   | 50 ms   | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| E       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nhanced |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Serving |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| HS-DSCH |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| change  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.3.10  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| System  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| info    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rmation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| acqu    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| isition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for CSG |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8       | 2.71 s  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| .3.10.1 | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| Intrafr |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| System  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| info    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rmation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| acqu    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| isition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for CSG |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8       | 1.96 s  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| .3.10.2 | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| Inter   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| fr      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| System  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| info    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rmation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| acqu    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| isition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for CSG |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.4.3.  | 140ms   | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Tr      | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| ansport |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| format  | ( see   |         |         |         |         |         |
| comb    | 8.4.    |         |         |         |         |         |
| ination | 3.1.4.2 |         |         |         |         |         |
| se      | and     |         |         |         |         |         |
| lection | 8.4.3   |         |         |         |         |         |
| in UE.  | .1A.4.2 |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | step 7) |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8       | 50      | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| .4.4.1: | msdelay |         |         |         |         |         |
| 10 ms   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-TFC   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rest    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| riction |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8       | 31ms    | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| .4.4.2: | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2 ms    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-TFC   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rest    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| riction |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.6.2.2 | 36.4 s  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| correct | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| porting | (see    |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      | pr      |         |         |         |         |         |
| nei     | ocedure |         |         |         |         |         |
| ghbours | 8.6.    |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      | 2.2.4.2 |         |         |         |         |         |
| fading  | step 8) |         |         |         |         |         |
| prop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| agation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| co      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Release |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 5 only) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8       | 13.9 s  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| .6.2.2A | delay   |         |         |         |         |         |
| correct |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      | (see    |         |         |         |         |         |
| porting | pr      |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      | ocedure |         |         |         |         |         |
| nei     | 8.6.2   |         |         |         |         |         |
| ghbours | .2A.4.2 |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      | step 8) |         |         |         |         |         |
| fading  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| agation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| co      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Release |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 6 and   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| later)  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.6.2.3 | \[1.78  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| correct | s       |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      | delay\] |         |         |         |         |         |
| porting |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      | (see    |         |         |         |         |         |
| nei     | pr      |         |         |         |         |         |
| ghbours | ocedure |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      | 8.6.    |         |         |         |         |         |
| fading  | 2.3.4.2 |         |         |         |         |         |
| prop    | step 8) |         |         |         |         |         |
| agation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| co      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ndition |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| using   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| T       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| GL1=14. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| CPICH   | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| RSCP    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| Intra   | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| fr      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| measu   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rements |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 8.      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 7.1.1.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| A       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bsolute |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.      | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| 7.1.1.2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| R       | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| elative | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Inter   | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| fr      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 8.      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 7.1.2.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| R       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| elative |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| CPICH   | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Ec/Io   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| Intra   | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| fr      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| measu   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rements |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 8.      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 7.2.1.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| A       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bsolute |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.      | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| 7.2.1.2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| R       | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| elative | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Inter   | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| fr      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 8.      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 7.2.2.2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| R       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| elative |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| UTRA    | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Carrier |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RSSI    | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| 8.7.3.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| A       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bsolute |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.7.3.2 | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| R       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| elative | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.7.3   | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| AGSM    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Carrier | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| SSI     | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.7.3C  | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| UE      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tran    | cons    |         |         |         |         |         |
| smitted | istency |         |         |         |         |         |
| power   | between |         |         |         |         |         |
| (R99    | r       |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     | eported |         |         |         |         |         |
| Rel-4   | power   |         |         |         |         |         |
| only)   | and     |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | tran    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | smitted |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | power   |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.7.3D  | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| UE      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tran    | cons    |         |         |         |         |         |
| smitted | istency |         |         |         |         |         |
| power   | between |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Rel-5  | r       |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     | eported |         |         |         |         |         |
| later)  | power   |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | and     |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | tran    |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | smitted |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | power   |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| SFN-CFN | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| o       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bserved | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| dif     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 8.7.4.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Intra   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| fr      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.7.4.2 | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Inter   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| fr      | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| equency | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| requ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| irement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| SFN-SFN | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| o       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bserved | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| dif     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 8.7.5.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SFN-SFN |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| o       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bserved |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dif     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| type 1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.7.5.2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| SFN-SFN |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| o       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bserved |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dif     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| type 2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| without |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| IPDL    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| period  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| active  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note:   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| This    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| case is |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| not     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| omplete |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| there   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cu      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rrently |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| no      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| plans   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| omplete |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| it.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.7.5.3 | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| SFN-SFN |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| o       | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| bserved | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dif     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| type 2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| with    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| IPDL    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| period  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| active  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note:   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| This    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| case is |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| not     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| omplete |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| there   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cu      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rrently |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| no      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| plans   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| omplete |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| it.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| UE      | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| Rx-Tx   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| dif     | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 8.7.6.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UE      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Rx-Tx   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dif     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| type 1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Rel-5  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| e       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| arlier) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8       | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| .7.6.1A |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UE      | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| Rx-Tx   | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dif     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| type 1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Rel-6  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| later)  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.7.6.2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| UE      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Rx-Tx   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dif     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ference |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| type 2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Note:   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| This    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| case is |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| not     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| omplete |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| there   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| are     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cu      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rrently |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| no      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| plans   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| to      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| omplete |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| it.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| P-CCPCH | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| RSCP    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| 8.7.8.1 | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| A       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bsolute |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| meas    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| urement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| a       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ccuracy |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 8.7.9   | 90%     | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     |
| UE      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Trans   | correct |         |         |         |         |         |
| mission | reports |         |         |         |         |         |
| Power   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| He      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| adroom. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

### F.6.2.9 Practical Use (informative)

See figure F.6.2.9:

The early fail limit represents formula (1) in F.6.2.5. The range of
validity is ne≥ 5 to ne = 154

The early pass limit represents the formula (2) in F.6.2.5. The range of
validity is ne=1 to ne =154. See note 1. The intersection co-ordinates
of both curves are: target number of bad delays ne = 154 and test limit
TL = 1.236.

A typical delay test, calculated form the number of samples and errors
(F.6.2.2) using experimental method (1) or (2) (see F.6.2.4.2.
calculation assumptions) runs along the yellow trajectory. With an good
delay the trajectory goes down vertically. With a bad delay it jumps up
right. The tester checks if the ER test intersects the early fail or
early pass limits.

![](media/image67.png){width="6.295138888888889in"
height="4.363194444444445in"}

Figure F.6.2.9

NOTE 1: At the beginning of the test, an artificial bad delay is
introduced. This ensures that an ideal DUT meets the valid range of the
early pass limit. In addition this ensures that the complementary
experiment (F.6.2.4.2. bullet point (2)) is applicable as well. For the
check against the early fail limit the artificial bad delay sample,
introduced at the beginning of the test , is disregarded.\
Due to the nature of the test, namely discrete bad delay events, the
early fail condition shall not be valid, when fractional bad delays \<1
are used to calculate the early fail limit: Any early fail decision is
postponed until number of errors ne ≥ 5.

F.6.3 Statistical Testing of HSDPA Receiver Performance
-------------------------------------------------------

### F.6.3.1 Definition

Information Bit Throughput R:

The measured information bit throughput R is defined as the sum (in
kilobits) of the information bit payloads (excluding the 24-bit HS-DSCH
CRC) successfully received during the test interval, divided by the
duration of the test interval (in seconds).

### F.6.3.2 Mapping throughput to block error ratio

a\) In measurement practice the UE indicates successfully received
information bit payload by signalling an ACK to the SS.\
If payload is received, but damaged and cannot be decoded, the UE
signals a NACK.

b\) Only the ACK and NACK signals, not the data bits received, are
accessible to the SS.\
The number of bits is known in the SS from knowledge of what payload was
sent.

c\) For fixed reference channel the number of bits in a TTI is fixed
during one test.

d\) The time in the measurement interval is composed of successful TTIs
(ACK), unsuccessful TTIs (NACK) and DTX-TTIs.

e\) DTX-TTIs occur regularly according to the H-set. (regDTX).\
In real live this is the time when other UEs are served.\
regDTX vary from test to test but are fixed within the test.

f\) Additional DTX-TTIs occur statistically when the UE is not
responding ACK or NACK where it should. (statDTX)\
This may happen when the UE was not expecting data or decided that the
data were not intended for it.

The pass / fail decision is done by observing the:

\- number of NACKs

\- number of ACKs and

\- number of statDTXs (regDTX is implicitly known to the SS)

The ratio (NACK + statDTX)/(NACK+ statDTX +ACK)is the Bock Error Ratio
BLER. Taking into account the time consumed by the ACK-, NACK-, and
DTX-TTIs (regular and statistical), BLER can be mapped unambiguously to
throughput for any single FRC test.

### F.6.3.3 Bad DUT factor

NOTE: Data throughput in a communication system is of statistical nature
and must be measured and decided pass or fail. The specified limit of
throughput related to the ideal throughput in different throughput tests
is in the range of a few % to near 100%. To make it comparable with BER,
we define the complement of the relative throughput: BLER as defined
above. Complementary this is in the range of near 100% down to a few %
For e.g. BLER = 1%, the currently in BER BLER used Bad DUT factor M=1.5
is highly meaningful. For e.g. BLER = 99%, the currently used M=1.5
obviously meaningless.

An appropriate definition of the bad DUT factor is illustrated in figure
F.6.3.3: constant and variable Bad DUT factor.

It illustrates how to find the Bad BLER when the nominal BLER is given.

1\) In the range 0%\< nominal BLER\>10% the Bad DUT factor is constant
1.5

2\) In the range 90%\< bad BLER\>100% it decreases to 1. (symmetrical to
(1))

3\) The range in between is interpolated by an arc section.

The example shows: nominal BLER=35,6%  bad BLER=47.67.5%  M=1.34

(blue mapping)

Figure F.6.3.3: constant and variable Bad DUT factor

Formula:

For 0 \< BLER\<= 0.1 M = 1.5

For 0.1 \<BLER \<.9

For 0.9 \<= BLER \< 1 M(BLER)= 2/3BLER + 1/3

With BLER: nominal Block Error Ratio (0\<BLER\<1)

With r = 2.70415 (Radius of the arc)

#### F.6.3.3.1 Bad DUT factor, range of applicability

Inaccuracy is one practical reason to avoid the grey shaded area of
figure F.6.3.3: constant and variable Bad DUT factor. For BLER near 1
the Bad DUT factor M is near 1. For M=1,exactly, the pass and fail
criteria do not intersect. The test never is finalised.

For M near 1 the pass and fail criteria exhibit a very smooth
intersection. In addition the binomial distribution and its inverse are
of discrete nature. Therefore the test limit and the number of samples
is calculable only very ambiguous.

It is proposed to apply the bad DUT factor only in the not shaded area
of figure F.6.3.3.

This is done by the following:

BLER mode:

Use BLER as defined above in the range of 0 to 50%, use M \>1 as defined
above.

The Test Limit will be \> the Test Requirement in the table F.6.3.5.
below.

Relative Throughput mode:

If BLER is in the range 50 to 100%, use 1-BLER instead. Use m\<1 instead
of M.

1-BLER is the relative throughput with respect to the ideal throughput.

As a consequence, the Test Limit \< Test Requirement

Formula for m:

For 0 \< (1-BLER) \<= 0.15 m = 1/1.5

For 0.15 \<(1-BLER) \<.85

In figure F.6.3.3 this is represented by the red mapping.

The tables F.6.3.5\... below distinguish between m and M.

### F.6.3.4 Minimum Test time

Same as with BER BLER there is a minimum test time is necessary for
multipath fading profiles with the same justification:

Table F.6.3.4 Applicability and characteristics of the Tables F.6.3.5.0
to F.6.3.5.4.10

  -------------- -------------------
  profile        Minimum Test time
  PA3, PB3       164s
  VA30, Case 8   16.4s
  VA 120         4.1s
  -------------- -------------------

The purpose of tables F.6.3.5.0 to F.6.3.5.4.10 is to decide throughput
pass or fail.

(the Ior/Ioc levels are only for reference)

Meaning of a decision:

\- A passed DUT is not worse than a Bad DUT with 95% confidence level.

\- A failed DUT is not better than a Limit DUT with 95% confidence
level.

The minimum Test Time is

1\) the minimum test time due to statistical reasons

> ( To ensure the confidence level, the test must be continued until a
> certain number of samples (NACK+ statDTX +ACK) is reached.)

2\) the minimum test time due to multipath fading.

The longer test time applies. It is marked in table F.6.3.5. which one
applies.

Statistical independence:

If a process works within an incremental redundancy sequence, the
samples are not independent. The incremental redundancy sequence for
every process must be finalised, successfully or unsuccessfully, on or
beyond the minimum test time.

Then the BLER (or 1-BLER) is compared with the Test Limit to decide pass
or fail.

Note: It is FFS, if correlation within groups of retransmissions may
influence the confidence level of the test.

Formula:

The theory, to derive the minimum number of samples and the Test Limit,
takes into consideration that BLER is in the range of near 0% to near
100%. Hence it is based on the binomial distribution and its inverse
cumulative function: qbinom:

For the BLER test mode:

ne~low~=qbinom(D,ns,M\*BLER~limit~) (1)

ne~high~=qbinom(1-D,ns,BLER~limit~) (2)

given: 1-D: confidence level= 95%

BLER~limit~=Block error ratio at the limit

M: Bad DUT factor \>1

Input: ns: number of samples (NACK+ statDTX + ACK)

Output ne: number of events (NACK+ statDTX)

The intersection of (1) and (2) is the Test Limit with the coordinates:
ns and ne

For the Relative Throughput test mode:

ne~low~=qbinom(D,ns,1-BLER~limit~) (3)

ne~high~=qbinom(1-D,ns,m\*(1-BLER~limit)~) (4)

given: 1-D: confidence level= 95%

1-BLER~limit~= Relative Throughput at the limit

m: Bad DUT factor \<1

Input: ns: number of samples (NACK+ statDTX + ACK)

Output ne: number of events (ACK)

The intersection of (3) and (4) is the Test Limit with the coordinates:
ns and ne

Note 1: In contrast to BER BLER test, this approach does not contain any
test time optimisation. (early pass, early fail)

Note 2: The intersection of (3) and (4) above is a multipoint
intersection due to the discrete nature of those curves. Thus, the
specific intersection point used for the test limit is a subjective
decision about the intersection point. In all cases, the intersection
point was chosen such that it fell in the middle of the set of
intersections of curves (3) and (4) above.

Nomenclature used in the tables F.6.3.5... below:

\- NACK+ statDTX + ACK is summarised as No of samples

\- NACK+ statDTX is summarised as No of errors

\- ACK is summarised as No of successes

\- In the BLER (BL) test mode the ratio: No of errors/ No of samples is
recorded. In this mode a pass is below the test limit

\- In the Relative Throughput (RT) test mode (1-BLER) the ratio: No of
successes/ No of samples is recorded. In this mode a pass is above the
test limit

\- The test mode, used, is indicated in the rightmost column with BL or
RT

\- The transition from the BL to the RT test mode can also be seen in
the column relative test requirement: BLER% (1-BLER%)

\- The generic term for No of errors (BLER mode) or No of successes
(Relative Throughput mode) is No of events. This is used in the table
column Test Limit.

### F.6.3.5 Test conditions for HSDPA Receiver Performance

Table F.6.3.5.0: DC-HSDPA/4C-HSDPA receiver test case 6.2A, 6.2C, 6.2D,
6.4B, 6.5A, 6.5D, 6.2DA, 6.5E, 6.5F, 6.5FA 6.5G, 6.5GA, 6.6A, 6.6C,
6.6D, 6.6DA, 6.7A, 6.7D, 6.7E and 6.7EA

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
| D       | A       | R       | Test    | Min No  | Test    | BL |
| C-HSDPA | bsolute | elative | limit   | of      | time in |    |
| Re      | Test    | test    | ex      | samples | s       | /  |
| ception | requ    | requ    | pressed |         |         |    |
|         | irement | irement | as No   | (number | Ma      | RT |
|         |         |         | of      | of      | ndatory |    |
|         | (kbps)  | (nor    | eve     | events  | if      |    |
|         |         | malized | nts/min | to      | fading  |    |
|         |         | to      | No of   | pass)   |         |    |
|         |         | i       | samples |         | Info    |    |
|         |         | deal=60 |         | Ma      | rmative |    |
|         |         | kbps)   | (Bad    | ndatory | and     |    |
|         |         |         | DUT     | if      | approx. |    |
|         |         | No of   | factor) | app     | if      |    |
|         |         | ev      |         | licable | stat    |    |
|         |         | ents/No |         |         | istical |    |
|         |         | of      |         |         |         |    |
|         |         | samples |         |         |         |    |
|         |         | in %    |         |         |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
| QPSK    |         |         |         |         |         |    |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |    |
| H-Set   |         |         |         |         |         |    |
| 12      |         |         |         |         |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
|         | 54      | 10%     | 58/467  | 467     | 0.934s  | BL |
|         |         |         |         |         | (stat)  |    |
|         |         |         | (M=1.5) | (≤58)   |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.1: Maximum Input Level test cases 6.3A, 6.3C, 6.3G and
6.3GA

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
| Maximum | A       | R       | Test    | Min No  | Test    | BL |
| Input   | bsolute | elative | limit   | of      | time in |    |
| Level   | Test    | test    | ex      | samples | s       | /  |
| for     | requ    | requ    | pressed |         |         |    |
| H       | irement | irement | as No   | (number | Ma      | RT |
| S-PDSCH |         |         | of      | of      | ndatory |    |
| Re      | (kbps)  | (nor    | eve     | events  | if      |    |
| ception |         | malized | nts/min | to      | fading  |    |
| (16QAM) |         | to      | No of   | pass)   |         |    |
|         |         | id      | samples |         | Info    |    |
|         |         | eal=777 |         | Ma      | rmative |    |
|         |         | kbps)   | (Bad    | ndatory | and     |    |
|         |         |         | DUT     | if      | approx. |    |
|         |         | No of   | factor) | app     | if      |    |
|         |         | ev      |         | licable | stat    |    |
|         |         | ents/No |         |         | istical |    |
|         |         | of      |         |         |         |    |
|         |         | samples |         |         |         |    |
|         |         | in %    |         |         |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
| 16 QAM  |         |         |         |         |         |    |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |    |
| H-Set 1 |         |         |         |         |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
|         | 700     | 10%     | 58/467  | 467     | 2.8s    | BL |
|         |         |         |         |         | (stat)  |    |
|         |         |         | (M=1.5) | (≤58)   |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.1A: Maximum Input Level test cases 6.3B, 6.3D, 6.3H and
6.3HA

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
| Maximum | A       | R       | Test    | Min No  | Test    | BL |
| Input   | bsolute | elative | limit   | of      | time in |    |
| Level   | Test    | test    | ex      | samples | s       | /  |
| for     | requ    | requ    | pressed |         |         |    |
| H       | irement | irement | as No   | (number | Ma      | RT |
| S-PDSCH |         |         | of      | of      | ndatory |    |
| Re      | (kbps)  | (nor    | eve     | events  | if      |    |
| ception |         | malized | nts/min | to      | fading  |    |
| (64QAM) |         | to      | No of   | pass)   |         |    |
|         |         | idea    | samples |         | Info    |    |
|         |         | l=13252 |         | Ma      | rmative |    |
|         |         | kbps)   | (Bad    | ndatory | and     |    |
|         |         |         | DUT     | if      | approx. |    |
|         |         | No of   | factor) | app     | if      |    |
|         |         | ev      |         | licable | stat    |    |
|         |         | ents/No |         |         | istical |    |
|         |         | of      |         |         |         |    |
|         |         | samples |         |         |         |    |
|         |         | in %    |         |         |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
| 64 QAM  |         |         |         |         |         |    |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |    |
| H-Set 8 |         |         |         |         |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
|         | 11800   | 10.96%  | 57/422  | 422     | 0.844s  | BL |
|         |         |         |         |         | (stat)  |    |
|         |         |         | (M      | (≤57)   |         |    |
|         |         |         | =1.499) |         |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+

**Table** F.6.3.5.2.1: Single link performance for test case 9.2.1A,
9.2.1C 9.2.1F, 9.2.1FA to 9.2.1FD demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK, H-Set
1, 2, 3/3A/3B/3C)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| P     | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| erfor | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| mance | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
|       | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=534 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 65    | 87    | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | ,82% | 0/595 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (12   |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .18%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1 /   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1.5)  |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 23    | 9     | 64    | N.A   | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.69% | /1796 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (4    | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .31%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 138   | 74    | 5     | N.A.  | 16    | RT |
|       |       |       | .14% | 8/268 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       | (25   |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .86%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .682) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 22    | 9     | 64    | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.9% | /1888 |       | 4s(fa |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (     |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 4.1%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 142   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.4% | 9/264 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       | (2    |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | 6.6%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .684) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 13    | 97.   | 63    | 3224  | H-set | RT |
|       |       |       | 564% | /3224 |       | 1:    |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (2.   |       | (≥63) | 1     |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 436%) | (m =  |       | 9.5s( |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       | stat) |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | H-set |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 2:    |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 13s   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stat) |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | H-set |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 3:    |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 6.5s  |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stat) |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 140   | 73    | 5     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | .77% | 9/268 |       | 1s(fa |    |
|       |       |       | (26   |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .23%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .683) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 309   | 42.1% | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 3/171 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .295) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 423   | 2     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 0.74% | 0/237 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .445) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 181   | 6     | 6     | N.A   | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.1% | 2/215 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (3    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 3.9%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .703) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 287   | 46    | 8     | N.A.  | 16    | RT |
|       |       |       | .22% | 4/176 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       | (53   |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | ,78%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0.77) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 190   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.4% | 4/211 |       | 4s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (3    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 5.6%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .708) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 295   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.72% | 5/173 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (55   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .28%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .775) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 181   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.1% | 2/215 |       | 1s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (3    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 3.9%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .703) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 275   | 4     | 7     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 8.5% | 9/174 |       | 1s(fa |    |
|       |       |       | (5    |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | 1.5%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .761) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.1A: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1D, 9.2.1E
demodulation of HS-DSCH (enhanced requirement type 1, QPSK, H-Set 1, 2,
3) and 9.2.1G, 9.2.1GA, 9.2.1GB, 9.2.1GC, 9.2.1GD demodulation of
HS-DSCH (enhanced requirement type 3, QPSK, H-Set 3)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| type  |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| 1     | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| P     | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | l=534 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 195   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.46% | 4/205 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (36   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .54%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .710) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 329   | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 8.35% | 8/175 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (61  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .65%) | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .320) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 156   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 0.77% | 9/239 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (29   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .23%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .690) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 263   | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 0.72% | 6/176 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (49   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .28%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .753) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 171   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.96% | 1/225 |       | 4s(fa |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (32   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .04%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .697) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 273   | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 16.   | BL |
|       |       |       | 8.84% | 6/174 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (51   | (M    |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .16%) | =1    |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .252) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 168   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 8.52% | 0/228 |       | 1s(fa |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (34   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .48%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .696) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 263   | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 0.72% | 6/176 |       | 1s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (49   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .28%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .753) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 247   | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.72% | 2/180 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (46   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .28%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .742) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 379   | 2     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 8.95% | 6/193 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (71   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .02%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .386) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 195   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.46% | 3/204 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (36   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .54%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .710) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 316   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 0.79% | 1/172 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (59   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .21%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .303) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 212   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 0.27% | 6/194 |       | 4s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (39   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .73%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .720) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 329   | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 16.   | BL |
|       |       |       | 8.35% | 8/175 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (61   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .65%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .320) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 191   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.21% | 3/208 |       | 1s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (35   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .79%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .708) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 293   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 4.    | BL |
|       |       |       | 5.10% | 9/173 |       | 1s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (54   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .90%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .275) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.2: Single link performance for test case 9.2.1A and
9.2.1C demodulation of HS-DSCH (16 QAM, H-Set 1, 2, 3)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| P     | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| erfor | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| mance | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
|       | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=777 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 198   | 74    | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | .53% | 8/272 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (25   |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .47%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .681) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 368   | 52    | 7     | N.A.  | 16    | RT |
|       |       |       | .66% | 4/179 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       | (47   |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .34%) | m=    |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0.746 |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 34    | 95.   | 64    | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 626% | /1770 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (4.   |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 374%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 219   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.83% | 8/240 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (28   | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | ,17%) | .687) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 47    | 9     | 63    | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.95% | /1259 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (6    | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .05%) | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 214   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 2.47% | 9/255 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (27   | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .53%) | .686) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 28    | 96.4% | 64    | 2150  | 12.9s | RT |
|       |       |       |      | /2150 |       | H     |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (     |       | (≥64) | -set1 |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 3.6%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       | 8.6s  |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | H     |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | -set2 |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 4.3s  |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | Hset3 |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | (     |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | stat) |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 167   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 4.1s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 8.51% | 7/319 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (21   | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .49%) | .673) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.2A: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1D and
9.2.1E demodulation of HS-DSCH (enhanced requirement type 1, 16 QAM,
H-Set 1, 2, 3)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| type  |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| 1     | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| P     | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | l=777 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 312   | 5     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 9.86% | 6/193 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (40   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .14%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .722) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 487   | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 7.35% | 6/176 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (6    | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | 2.65) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .327) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 275   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.62% | 3/209 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (35   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .38%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .707) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 408   | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 7.51% | 4/174 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (5    | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | 2.49) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .260) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 296   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.92% | 5/199 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (38   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .08%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .715) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 430   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       |       |       | 4.68% | 8/173 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (55   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .32%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .278) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 271   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 4.1s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.14% | 2/211 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (34   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .86%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .705) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 392   | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 4.1s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 9.57% | 7/175 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (50   |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .43%) |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.3: Single link performance for test case 9.2.1B
demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK H-Set 4)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| P     | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| erfor | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| mance | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
|       |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=534 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 4     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 72    | 86.5% | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 9/528 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (1    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 3.5%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 24    | 95.5% | 63    | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |      | /1695 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (     |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 4.5%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 142   | 73.4% | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 9/264 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (2    |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | 6.6%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .684) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 19    | 9     | 64    | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.44% | /2176 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (3    | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .56%) | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 148   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 2.27% | 9/253 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (27   | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .73%) | .686) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 11    | 98%  | 65    | 3746  | 22.5s | RT |
|       |       |       | (2%)  | /3746 |       | (     |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |       |       | (≥65) | stat) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 144   | 73%  | 5     | N.A.  | 4.1s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (27%) | 8/256 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .684) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 340   | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 6.29% | 5/177 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .334) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 439   | 1     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 7.74% | 8/266 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .468) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 186   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.15% | 2/209 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (34   | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .85%) | .705) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 299   | 44%  | 8     | N.A.  | 16    | RT |
|       |       |       | (56%) | 7/174 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .778) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 183   | 65.7% | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 3/216 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 4.3%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .704) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 306   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       |       |       | 2.66% | 6/176 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .291) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 170   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 4.1s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 8,14% | 1/226 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (31   | (m    |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .86%) | =697) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 284   | 46    | 8     | N.A.  | 4.1s  | RT |
|       |       |       | .78% | 1/172 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (53   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .22%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .767) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.4: Single link performance for test case 9.2.1B
demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK H-Set 5)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| P     | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| erfor | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| mance | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
|       |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=801 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 5     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 98    | 8     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.76% | 9/583 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (12   | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .24%) | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 35    | 9     | 63    | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.63% | /1746 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (4    | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .37%) | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 207   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.14% | 8/268 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (25   | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .86%) | .682) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 33    | 9     | 64    | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.88% | /1879 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (4    | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .12%) | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 213   | 73.4% | 59    | N.A.  | 16.2s | RT |
|       |       |       |      | /264% |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (2    |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | 6.6%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .684) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 20    | 97.5% | 64    | 3101  | 12.4s | RT |
|       |       |       |      | /3101 |       | (     |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (     |       | (≥64) | stat) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 2.5%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 210   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 4.1s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.77% | 9/268 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (26   | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .23%) | .683) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 464   | 42%   | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 4/174 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .295) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 635   | 2     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 0.67% | 9/234 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .446) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 272   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.02% | 3/218 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (33   | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .98%) | .703) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 431   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 16    | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.16% | 4/176 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (5    | (m=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | 3.84) | 0.77) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 285   | 64.4% | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 4/211 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (3    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 5.6%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .708) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 443   | 44.7% | 8     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 5/173 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       | (5    |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | 5.3%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .775) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 272   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 4.1s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.02% | 3/218 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (33   | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .98%) | .703) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 413   | 48.4% | 8     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 1/176 |       | 1s(fa |    |
|       |       |       | (5    |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | 1.6%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .761) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.5: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1C
demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK H-Set 6)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| P     | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| erfor | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| mance | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
|       |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | =3219 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 1407  | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.29% | 0/185 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (43   |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .71%) |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 2090  | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 5.07% | 3/179 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (64   |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .93%) |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.5A: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1E
demodulation of HS-DSCH (enhanced requirement type 1, QPSK H-Set 6)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| type  | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| 1     |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| P     |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | =3219 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 672   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 9.12% | 7/328 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (20   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .88%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .672) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1305  | 5     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 9.46% | 7/193 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (40   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .54%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .723) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.5B: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1F,
9.2.1FA to9.2.1FD demodulation of HS-DSCH (enhanced requirement type 2,
QPSK H-Set 6/6A/6B/6C)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| type  | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| 2     |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| P     |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | =3219 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 1494  | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.59% | 2/179 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (46   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .41%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .743) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 2153  | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 3.12% | 1/182 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (66   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .88%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .356) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 1038  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.75% | 1/224 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (32   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .25%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .698) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1744  | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 5.82% | 0/172 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (54   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .18%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .271) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 1142  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.52% | 3/209 |       | 4s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (35   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .48%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .707) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1782  | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 16.   | BL |
|       |       |       | 4.64% | 8/172 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (55   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .36%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .278) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 909   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.76% | 9/248 |       | 1s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (28   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .24%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .687) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1467  | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.43% | 2/181 |       | 1s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (45   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .57%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .740) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.5C: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1G,
9.2.1GA, 9.2.1GB, 9.2.1GC, 9.2.1GD demodulation of HS-DSCH (enhanced
requirement type 3, QPSK H-Set 6/6A)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| type  | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| 3     |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| P     |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | =3219 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 1554  | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.72% | 5/178 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (48   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .28%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .749) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 2495  | 2     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 2.49% | 1/226 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (77   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .51%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .433) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 1190  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.03% | 4/205 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (36   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .94%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .712) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 2098  | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 4.82% | 3/180 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (65   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .18%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .344) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 1299  | 5     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 9.65% | 6/192 |       | 4s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (40   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .35%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .722) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 2013  | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 16.   | BL |
|       |       |       | 7.46% | 7/176 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (62   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .54%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .326) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 1060  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.07% | 1/221 |       | 1s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (39   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .93%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .700) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1674  | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 4.    | BL |
|       |       |       | 8.00% | 6/174 |       | 1s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (52   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .00%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .252) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 5     | PB3   | 1248  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.23% | 6/198 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 5  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (38   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .77%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .717) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 2044  | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 6.50% | 5/176 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (63   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .50%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .332) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.6: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1C
demodulation of HS-DSCH (16 QAM H-Set 6)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| P     | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| erfor | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| mance | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
|       |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | =4689 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 887   | 8     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.08% | 6/362 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (18   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .92%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .669) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1664  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.51% | 3/209 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (35   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .49%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .707) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.6A: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1E
demodulation of HS-DSCH (enhanced requirement type 1, 16 QAM H-Set 6)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| type  | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| 1     |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| P     |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | =4689 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 912   | 8     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 0.55% | 6/352 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (19   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .45%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .670) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1730  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.10% | 4/203 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (36   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .90%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .712) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.6B: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1F,
9.2.1FA to9.2.1FD demodulation of HS-DSCH (enhanced requirement type 2,
16 QAM H-Set 6/6A/6B/6C)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| type  | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| 2     |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| P     |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | =4689 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 991   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 8.86% | 7/324 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (21   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .14%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .673) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1808  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.44% | 5/197 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (38   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .56%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .717) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 465   | 9     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 0.08% | 0/740 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (9    | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .92%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1370  | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 0.78% | 9/242 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (29   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .22%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .690) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 587   | 8     | 5     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.48% | 9/573 |       | 4s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (12   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .52%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1488  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 8.26% | 0/226 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (31   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .74%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .697) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 386   | 9     | 6     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.77% | 1/905 |       | 1s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (8    | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .23%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1291  | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 2.46% | 8/254 |       | 1s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (27   |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .54%) |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.6C: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1G,
9.2.1GA, 9.2.1GB, 9.2.1GC, 9.2.1GD demodulation of HS-DSCH (enhanced
requirement type 3, 16 QAM H-Set 6/6A)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| type  | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| 3     |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| P     |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | =4689 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 1979  | 5     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.79% | 9/190 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (42   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .21%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .728) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 3032  | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 5.34% | 3/178 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (64   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .66%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .340) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 1619  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.47% | 2/211 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (34   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .53%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .704) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 2464  | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 7.45% | 2/171 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (52   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .55%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .260) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 1710  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.   | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.53% | 3/204 |       | 4s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (36   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .47%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .710) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 2490  | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 16.   | BL |
|       |       |       | 6.90% | 1/171 |       | 4s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (53   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .10%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .264) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA120 | 1437  | 6     | 5     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 9.35% | 9/231 |       | 1s(fa |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (30   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .65%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .694) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 2148  | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 4.    | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.19% | 2/182 |       | 1s(fa |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (45   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .81%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .740) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 5     | PB3   | 779   | 8     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.39% | 7/414 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 5  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (16   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .61%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .667) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1688  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.00% | 3/207 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (36   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .00%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .709) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.7: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1H, 9.2.1HA
to- 9.2.1HD demodulation of HS-DSCH (enhanced requirement type 2, 64QAM
H-Set 8/8A/8B/8C)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| type  | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| 2     |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| P     |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       | i     |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | deal= | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | 13245 | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       |       | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | No of |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 64    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 8     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 4507  | 6     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.97% | 7/324 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 15 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| and   |       |       | (34   | (m =  |       |       |    |
| 18    |       |       | .03%) | 0     |       |       |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | .703) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 5736  | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.69% | 0/188 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (43   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .31%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .732) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.7A: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1I,
9.2.1IA to 9.2.1ID demodulation of HS-DSCH (enhanced requirement type 3,
64QAM H-Set 8/8A/8B/8C)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| type  | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| 3     |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| P     |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       | i     |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | deal= | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | 13245 | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       |       | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | No of |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 64    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 8     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 6412  | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.59% | 8/184 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 15 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| and   |       |       | (48   | (m =  |       |       |    |
| 18    |       |       | .41%) | 0     |       |       |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | .750) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 7638  | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 2.33% | 5/175 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (57   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .67%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .293) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.7B: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1J,
9.2.1JA to 9.2.1JD -Enhanced requirement type 2, QPSK / 16QAM, FRC H-Set
10/10A/10B/10C)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| r     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| equir |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| ement | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| Type2 |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | i     |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | deal= | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | 4860( | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | QPSK) | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       |       | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | ideal |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | =8774 |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | (1    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | 6QAM) |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | No of |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK/ |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 16QAM |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 10    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QP    | VA3   | 1397  | 71.   | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
| SK,(= |       |       | 255% | 3/259 |       | (fa   |    |
| 4.6   |       |       | (28.  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 745%) | (m=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0.698 |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | )     |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    | VA3   | 1726  | 80    | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
| QAM,  |       |       | .33% | 6/343 |       | (fa   |    |
| (=    |       |       | (19   |       |       | ding) |    |
| 8.6   |       |       | .67%) | (m    |       |       |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | =0.67 |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | )     |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.7C: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1K,
9.2.1KA to 9.2.1KD Enhanced requirement type 3, QPSK / 16 QAM FRC H-Set
10/10A/10B/10C)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| Type  | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| 3     |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | =4860 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | (     | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | QPSK) | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       |       | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | ideal |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | =8774 |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | (1    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | 6QAM) |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | No of |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK/ |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 16QAM |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 10    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  | VA3   | 2621  | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 6.07% | 0/172 |       | (fa   |    |
| (=    |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| 4.6   |       |       | (53   | (M=1  |       |       |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .93%) | .269) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16QAM | VA3   | 3396  | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.29% | 5/196 |       | (fa   |    |
| (=    |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| 8.6   |       |       | (38   | (m=   |       |       |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .71%) | 0.717 |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | )     |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.7D: Single link Performance for test case 9.2.1L,
9.2.1LA to 9.2.1LD Enhanced requirement type 3i, QPSK, FRC H-Set
6/6A/6B/6C)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| enh   | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| anced | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| Type  | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| 3i    |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | =3219 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6/6A  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  | PB3   | 691   | 78    | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | .534% | 7/319 |       | (fa   |    |
| (=    |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| 0dB   |       |       | (21.  | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | 466%) | .673) |       |       |    |
| DIP1= |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| -2.75 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| dB    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| DIP2= |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| -7.64 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| dB    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1359  | 57    | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | .782% | 9/189 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (42.  | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | 218%) | .728) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       | VA30  | 661   | 79    | 5     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | .466% | 7/334 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (20.  | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | 534%) | .672) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 1327  | 58    | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | .776% | 8/191 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (41.  | (m=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | 224%) | 0.725 |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | )     |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.3.1: Open Loop Diversity Performance for test case 9.2.2A
and 9.2.2D demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK, H-Set 1, 2, 3)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Open  | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| Loop  | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Dive  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| rsity | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| P     | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| erfor | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| mance | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=534 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 77    | 85.57 | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | %(14 | 8/486 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | .43%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 180   | 66.27 | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | %(33 | 2/216 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | .73%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .702) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 20    | 96    | 64    | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | .25% | /2065 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (3    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .75%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 154   | 71    | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | .14% | 9/243 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (28   |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | ,86%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .689) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 15    | 9     | 64    | H-Set | H-Set | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.19% | /2758 | 1:    | 2,3:  |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       |       |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (2    | (m=1  | 2758  | 16.4s |    |
|       |       |       | .81%) | /1.5) |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       | (≥64) | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | H-Set |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 1:    |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | 16    |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | .6s(s |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | tat.) |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 162   | 69    | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | .64% | 0/235 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (30   |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .36%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .693) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 375   | 29.7% | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 8/192 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (M=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1.38) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 475   | 11%   | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 8/425 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .499) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 183   | 65.7% | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 3/216 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (3    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 4.3%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .704) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 274   | 48.7% | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (5   | 0/177 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 1.3%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0.76) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 187   | 65%  | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (35%) | 2/208 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .706) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 284   | 46.8% | 8     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (5   | 2/174 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 3.2%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .767) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.3.2: Open Loop Diversity Performance for test case 9.2.2A
and 9.2.2D demodulation of HS-DSCH (16 QAM, H-Set 1, 2, 3)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Open  | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| Loop  | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Dive  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| rsity | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| P     | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| erfor | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| mance | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=777 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 295   | 62%   | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 6/203 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (38%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .715) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 463   | 40.4% | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 2/176 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .306) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 24    | 96.9% | 64    | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (    | /2500 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 3.1%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 243   | 68.7% | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 0/227 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 1.3%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .695) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 35    | 95.5% | 63    | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (    | /1695 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 4.5%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 251   | 67.7% | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 1/223 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 2.3%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .698) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.3.3: Open Loop Diversity Performance for test case 9.2.2B
demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK, H-Set 4)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Open  | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| Loop  | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Dive  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| rsity | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| P     | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| erfor | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| mance |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=534 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 4     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 70    | 86.9% | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (1   | 9/544 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | 3.1%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 171   | 68%   | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 1/225 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (32%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .697) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 14    | 97.4% | 64    | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (    | /2982 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | 2.6%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 150   | 71.9% | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (2   | 9/250 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 8.1%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .687) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 11    | 9     | 65    | 3819  | 23s   | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.04% | /3819 |       | (     |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (2   |       | (≥65) | stat) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .06%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 156   | 70.8% | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (2   | 0/243 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 9.2%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0.69) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 369   | 30.9% | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 9/188 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .372) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 471   | 11.7% | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 8/400 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .497) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 180   | 66.3% | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 3/220 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 3.7%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .702) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 276   | 48.3% | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (5   | 9/173 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 1.7%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .762) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 184   | 65.5% | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 2/211 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 4.5%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .704) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 285   | 46.6% | 8     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (5   | 1/171 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 3.4%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .768) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.3.4: Open Loop Diversity Performance for test case 9.2.2B
demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK, H-Set 5)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Open  | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| Loop  | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Dive  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| rsity | r     | re    | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| P     | equir | quire | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| erfor | ement | ment, | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| mance |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | (     | norma | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | lized | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | to    | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | l=801 |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 5     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 116   | 85.5% | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (1   | 9/492 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | 4.5%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .667) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 270   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.27% | 2/216 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (33  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .73%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .702) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 30    | 9     | 65    | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.25% | /2100 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (3   |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .75%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 231   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.14% | 8/243 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (28  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .86%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .689) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 23    | 9     | 64    | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.13% | /2741 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (2   |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .87%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 243   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 9.64% | 0/234 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (30  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .36%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .693) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 563   | 2     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 9.67% | 8/194 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .381) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 713   | 1     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 0.93% | 8/428 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .499) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 275   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.65% | 4/212 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (34  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .35%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .704) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 411   | 4     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 8.66% | 7/170 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (51  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .34%) | (m=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0.76) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 281   | 64.9% | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 3/211 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 5.1%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .706) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 426   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.78% | 1/172 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (53  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .22%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .767) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.3.5: Open Loop Diversity Performance for test case 9.2.2C
demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK, H-Set 1, 2, 3) and test case 9.2.2E

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Open  | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| Loop  | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Dive  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| rsity | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| P     | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| erfor | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| mance | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=534 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 197   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.09% | 4/203 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (36   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .91%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .712) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 330   | 3     | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 8.16% | 0/181 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (61   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .84%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .321) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 152   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.52% | 9/247 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (28   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .48%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .688) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 251   | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 2.97% | 3/179 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (47   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .03%) | 0.745 |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 164   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 9.27% | 0/232 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (30   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .73%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .694) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 261   | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.09% | 5/176 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (48   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .91%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .751) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 268   | 4     | 10    | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 9.78% | 1/181 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (50   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .22%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .246) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 407   | 2     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 3.74% | 2/217 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (76   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .26%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .424) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 183   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.71% | 2/213 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (34   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .29%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .704) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 288   | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 6.03% | 3/178 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (53   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .97%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .269) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 197   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.09% | 4/203 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (36   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .91%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .712) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 307   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       |       |       | 2.47% | 7/178 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (57   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .53%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .292) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.3.6: Open Loop Diversity Performance for test case 9.2.2C
demodulation of HS-DSCH (16QAM, H-Set 1, 2, 3) and test case 9.2.2E

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Open  | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| Loop  | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Dive  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| rsity | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| P     | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| erfor | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| mance | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=777 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 340   | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 6.26% | 0/184 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (43   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .74%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .733) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 513   | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       |       |       | 4.01% | 2/180 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (65   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .99%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .350) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 251   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.71% | 0/222 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (32   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .29%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .698) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 374   | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.89% | 4/177 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (48   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .11%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .749) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 280   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.98% | 3/206 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (36   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .02%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .709) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 398   | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       |       |       | 8.80% | 6/174 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | (51   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .20%) | 1     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .252) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.1: Closed Loop Diversity Performance for test case
9.2.3A and 9.2.3D demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK, H-Set 1, 2, 3)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| C     | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| losed | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Loop  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| Dive  | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| rsity | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| P     | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| erfor | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| mance | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=534 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 118   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.89% | 8/315 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (22  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .11%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .674) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 225   | 5     | 69/18 | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.84% | 9(m=0 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (42  | .728) |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .16%) |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 50    | 9     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 0.63% | 1/787 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (9   |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .37%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 173   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.58% | 1/222 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (32  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .42%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .698) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 47    | 91.2% | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (    | 2/852 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | 8.8%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 172   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.77% | 1/223 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (32  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .23%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .698) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 399   | 2     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 5.23% | 3/207 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .413) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 458   | 1     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 4.18% | 7/325 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .487) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 199   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 2.71% | 5/204 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (37  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .29%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .713) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 301   | 43.6% | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 8/180 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .285) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 204   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.77% | 5/198 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (38  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .23%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .716) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 305   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       |       |       | 2.85% | 5/173 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1.29) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.1A: Closed Loop Diversity Performance for test case
9.2.3C demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK, H-Set 1, 2, 3), type 1 and test
case 9.2.3E

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| C     | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| losed | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Loop  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| Dive  | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| rsity | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| P     | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| erfor | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| mance | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=534 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 242   | 54.7% | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (4   | 1/180 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | 5.3%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .739) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 369   | 30.9% | 86/23 | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |       | 9(M=1 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       | .327) |       | ding) |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 170   | 68.2% | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 3/199 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | 1.8%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .679) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 272   | 49.1% | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (5   | 8/174 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 0.9%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .759) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 172   | 67.8% | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 2/227 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | 2.2%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .698) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 270   | 49.4% | 7     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (5   | 8/175 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 0.6%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .758) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 297   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 4.4.% | 8/173 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (M=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1.28) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 410   | 23.2% | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 0/213 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .434) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 194   | 63.7% | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 3/203 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 6.3%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0.71) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 308   | 42.3% | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 4/173 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .293) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 204   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.77% | 5/198 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (38  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .23%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .716) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 315   | 41.0% | 8     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 0/169 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .302) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.2: Closed Loop Diversity Performance **for test case
9.2.3A** and 9.2.3D **demodulation of HS-DSCH** (16 QAM, H-Set 1, 2, 3)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| C     | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| losed | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Loop  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| Dive  | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| rsity | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| P     | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| erfor | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| mance | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=777 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 361   | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 3.56% | 3/180 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (46  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .44%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .743) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 500   | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 5.68% | 4/177 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .338) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 74    | 9     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 0.48% | 2/788 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (9   |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .52%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 255   | 67.2% | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 1/219 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 2.8%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m    |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | =0.7) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 84    | 89.2% | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (1   | 1/683 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 0.8%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 254   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.32% | 1/220 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (32  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .68%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .699) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.2A: Closed Loop Diversity Performance for test case
9.2.3C demodulation of HS-DSCH (16 QAM, H-Set 1, 2, 3), type 1 and test
case 9.2.3E

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| C     | H-SET | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| losed | 1     | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Loop  | Abs   | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| Dive  | olute | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| rsity | Test  | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| P     | r     | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| erfor | equir |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| mance | ement | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       |       | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       | (     | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       | kbps) | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  | for   | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=777 | H-SET |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps  | 1, 2, | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | for   | 3     | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | H-SET |       | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | 1)    | (Bad  | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       | DUT   | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | No of | fa    |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | even  | ctor) |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/2/3 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 376   | 51.6% | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (4   | 5/177 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 8.4%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0.75) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 532   | 31.5% | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       |       | 2/193 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .368) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 267   | 65.6% | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 2/212 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 4.4%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .704) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 393   | 49.4% | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (5   | 8/175 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | 0.6%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .758) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 279   | 64.1% | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (3   | 3/206 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | 5.9%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .708) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 404   | 48%   | 7     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 9/172 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (52%) |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .763) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.3: Closed Loop Diversity Performance for test case
9.2.3B demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK, H-Set 4)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| C     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| losed | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Loop  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| Dive  | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| rsity | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| P     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| erfor |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| mance | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=534 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 4     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 114   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 8.64% | 8/327 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (21  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .36%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .673) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 223   | 5     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 8.21% | 9/191 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (41  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .79%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .727) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 43    | 9     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.94% | 2/930 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (8   |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .06%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 167   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 8.71% | 0/227 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (31  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .29%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .695) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 40    | 92.5% | 63    | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | (    | /1017 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | 7.5%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 170   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 8.14% | 1/226 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (31  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .86%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .697) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 398   | 2     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 5.42% | 3/206 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .412) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 457   | 1     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 4.37% | 7/321 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .486) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 196   | 63.27 | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | (36  | 4/204 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | .73%) |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .711) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 292   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.28% | 5/175 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (54  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .72%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .773) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 199   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 2.71% | 5/204 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (37  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .29%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .713) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 305   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       |       |       | 2.85% | 5/173 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1.29) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.4: Closed Loop Diversity Performance for test case
9.2.3B demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK, H-Set 5)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| C     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| losed | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Loop  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| Dive  | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| rsity | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| P     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| erfor |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| mance | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=801 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 5     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 177   | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.89% | 8/315 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (22  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .11%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .674) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 338   | 5     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.78% | 8/186 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (42  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .22%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .728) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 75    | 9     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 0.63% | 1/787 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (9   |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .37%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 260   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.52% | 2/225 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (32  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .48%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .699) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 71    | 9     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.13% | 2/846 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       | (8   |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .87%) | (m=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | /1.5) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 258   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 7.77% | 1/223 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       | (32  |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       | .23%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .698) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 599   | 2     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 5.17% | 4/211 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .413) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 687   | 1     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 4.18% | 7/325 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .487) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | PB3   | 299   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 2.65% | 4/200 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (37  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .35%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .713) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 452   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 164s  | BL |
|       |       |       | 3.54% | 7/174 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=1  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .285) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | VA30  | 306   | 6     | 6     | N.A.  | 16.4s | RT |
|       |       |       | 1.77% | 5/198 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (38  |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | .23%) | (m=0  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .716) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       | 458   | 4     | 8     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       |       |       | 2.79% | 6/175 |       | (fa   |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       | ding) |    |
|       |       |       |       | (M=   |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1.29) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.5: Closed Loop Diversity Performance for test case
9.2.3D demodulation of HS-DSCH (QPSK, H-Set 6)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| C     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| losed | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Loop  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| Dive  | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| rsity | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| P     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| erfor |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| mance | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | =3219 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PB3   | 1536  | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 2.28% | 4/178 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (47   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .72%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .747) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.6: Closed Loop Diversity Performance for test case
9.2.3D demodulation of HS-DSCH (16QAM, H-Set 6)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| C     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| losed | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| Loop  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| Dive  | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| rsity | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| P     | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| erfor |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| mance | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | =4689 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 16QAM |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 6     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PB3   | 1154  | 7     | 5     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 5.39% | 7/280 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (24   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .61%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .679) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.7: HS-SCCH-less demodulation of HS-DSCH for test case
9.5.1 (QPSK, H-Set 7))

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| HS    | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| -SCCH | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| -less | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| de    | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| modul | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| ation | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| of    |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| HS    | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| -DSCH | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=TBD | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 7     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | Case  | 19.9  | 4     | 9     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       | 8     |       | 7.35% | 1/170 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (52   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .65%) | 1.26) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.8: HS-SCCH-less demodulation of HS-DSCH for test case
9.5.1A (Enhanced requirement type 1, QPSK, H-Set 7))

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| HS    | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| -SCCH | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| -less | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| de    | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| modul | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| ation | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| of    |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| HS    | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| -DSCH | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | idea  |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | l=TBD | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 7     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | Case  | 23.5  | 3     | 7     | N.A.  | 16.4s | BL |
|       | 8     |       | 7.83% | 6/173 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (62   | (M =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .17%) | 1.32) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.9: HS-DSCH and HS-SCCH reception in CELL-FACH state

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 9.6.1 | Abs   | No of | Test  | Min   | Test  | ER    |    |
|       | olute | even  | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| S     | Test  | ts/No | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| ingle | r     | of    | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| link  | equir | sa    | as No |       | Mand  | SR    |    |
| HS    | ement | mples | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| -DSCH |       | in %  | event | umber | if    |       |    |
| de    | SDU   |       | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| modul | ER    | Error | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| ation |       | Rati  | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| p     |       | o(ER) | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
| erfor |       |      |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
| mance |       | (Su   | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
| in    |       | ccess | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
| CELL  |       | Ratio | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
| -FACK |       | (SR)) | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       | tical |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| QPSK  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| H-Set |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 3     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| (= 0  | VA30  | 0.82  | 82%  | 5     | 382   | 30.5s | SR |
| dB)   |       |       | (18%) | 7/382 |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       | (\    |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | (m =  | >=57) |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .668) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 9.6.2 | VA30  | 0.01  | 1%   | 65    | 5247  | 420s  | ER |
|       |       |       | (99%) | /5247 |       |       |    |
| (HS-  |       |       |       |       | (\    |       |    |
| DCCH) |       |       |       | (M =  | <=65) |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 1.5)  |       |       |    |
| (= 0  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| dB)   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.4.10: MIMO Performance for test case 9.2.4A, 9.2.4C,
9.2.4CA, 9.2.4E, 9.2.4G (FRC , H-Set 9/9A)

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
| MIMO    | A       | R       | Test    | Min No  | Test    | BL |
| Perf    | bsolute | elative | limit   | of      | time in |    |
| ormance | Test    | test    | ex      | samples | s       | /  |
|         | requ    | requ    | pressed |         |         |    |
|         | irement | irement | as No   | (number | Ma      | RT |
|         |         |         | of      | of      | ndatory |    |
|         | (kbps)  | (nor    | eve     | events  | if      |    |
|         |         | malized | nts/min | to      | fading  |    |
|         |         | to      | No of   | pass)   |         |    |
|         |         | idea    | samples |         | Info    |    |
|         |         | l=13510 |         | Ma      | rmative |    |
|         |         | kbps)   | (Bad    | ndatory | and     |    |
|         |         |         | DUT     | if      | approx. |    |
|         |         | No of   | factor) | app     | if      |    |
|         |         | ev      |         | licable | stat    |    |
|         |         | ents/No |         |         | istical |    |
|         |         | of      |         |         |         |    |
|         |         | samples |         |         |         |    |
|         |         | in %    |         |         |         |    |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |    |
|         |         | BL     |         |         |         |    |
|         |         | (RT)    |         |         |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
| H-Set   |         |         |         |         |         |    |
| 9/9A    |         |         |         |         |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+
| Test    |         |         |         |         |         |    |
| number  |         |         |         |         |         |    |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+----+

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 5563  | 55.8% | 68/   | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 192\* |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (4    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 1.2%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .725) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 2     | VA3   | 4347  | 67.8% | 61/   | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 225\* |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 10 |       |       | (3    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 2.2%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .679) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| \*    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| )nomi |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| nator |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| and   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| d     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| enomi |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| nator |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| by    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| its   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| own   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| are   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| i     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| rrele |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| vant, |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| only  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| the   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| ratio |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| is    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| rele  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| vant. |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| MIMO  | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| P     | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| erfor | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| mance | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
|       | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| H-Set | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
| 9/9A  |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
| Test  | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
| n     |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
| umber |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | ideal |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | =8650 | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       |       | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       | No of | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 3     | PA3   | 3933  | 54.5% | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 1/180 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 6  |       |       | (4    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 5.5%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .739) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 4     | VA3   | 3011  | 65.2% | 6     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       |      | 2/210 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 6  |       |       | (3    |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | 4.8%) | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .705) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

Table F.6.3.5.2.11: MIMO Performance for test case 9.2.4B, 9.2.4D,
9.2.4DA, 9.2.4F, 9.2.4H (FRC H-Set 11/11A)

+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| S     | Abs   | Rel   | Test  | Min   | Test  | BL    |    |
| ingle | olute | ative | limit | No of | time  |       |    |
| link  | Test  | test  | expr  | sa    | in s  | /     |    |
| P     | r     | r     | essed | mples |       |       |    |
| erfor | equir | equir | as No |       | Mand  | RT    |    |
| mance | ement | ement | of    | (n    | atory |       |    |
|       |       |       | event | umber | if    |       |    |
|       | (     | (     | s/min | of    | f     |       |    |
|       | kbps) | norma | No of | e     | ading |       |    |
|       |       | lized | sa    | vents |       |       |    |
|       |       | to    | mples | to    | I     |       |    |
|       |       | i     |       | pass) | nform |       |    |
|       |       | deal= | (Bad  |       | ative |       |    |
|       |       | 22074 | DUT   | Mand  | and   |       |    |
|       |       | kbps) | fa    | atory | ap    |       |    |
|       |       |       | ctor) | if    | prox. |       |    |
|       |       | No of |       | appli | if    |       |    |
|       |       | even  |       | cable | s     |       |    |
|       |       | ts/No |       |       | tatis |       |    |
|       |       | of    |       |       | tical |       |    |
|       |       | sa    |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | mples |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | in %  |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | BL   |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       | (RT)  |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| H     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| SET-1 |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 1/11A |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| 64    |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| QAM   |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| Test  |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| n     |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
| umber |       |       |       |       |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+
| 1     | PA3   | 9980  | 5     | 7     | N.A.  | 164s  | RT |
|       |       |       | 4.79% | 1/180 |       | (fa   |    |
| (= 18 |       |       |      |       |       | ding) |    |
| dB)   |       |       | (45   | (m =  |       |       |    |
|       |       |       | .21%) | 0     |       |       |    |
|       |       |       |       | .739) |       |       |    |
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+

F.6.4 Statistical testing of performance requirement (E-DCH and MBMS)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

### F.6.4.1 Test Method

Each test is performed in the following manner:

a\) Setup the required test conditions.

b\) Measure the E-HICH, the E-RGCH and the E-AGCH repeated times. The
results, measured, are summarized to:

a bad result, if the measured E-HICH returns a missed ACK or a false ACK
or\
if the E\_RGCH test returns a missed HOLD or a missed UP/DOWN or a
missed DOWN or\
if the E-AGCH test returns a missed detection in the relevant test.

a good result, otherwise.

c\) Record the number of valid results (ns), tested, and the number of
bad results (ne)

d\) Stop the test at an early pass or an early fail event.

e\) Once the test is stopped, decide according to the pass fail decision
rules

### F.6.4.2 Bad Result Ratio (ER)

The Bad Result Ratio (ER) is defined as the ratio of bad results (ne) to
all valid results (ns).

(1-ER is the success ratio).

### F.6.4.3 Mapping of E-DCH and MBMS tests to RRM tests (F.6.2) and HSDPA tests (F.6.3)

The test design and the explanations for the RRM tests in F.6.2.4 to
F.6.2.7 are valid also for the E-DCH and MBMS test as long as the error
ratio for minimum requirements is \<= 0.1.

The test design and the explanations for the HSDPA tests in F.6.3.3 to
F.6.3.4 are partly valid also for the E-DCH test as long as the error
ratio for minimum requirements is \> 0.1.

### F.6.4.4 Test conditions for E-DCH tests and MBMS

Table F.6.4.4: Test conditions for a E-DCH and MBMS tests

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| **Type  | **      | **Test  | *       | **Prob  | **Bad   | **      |
| of      | Minimum | limit   | *Target | that    | unit    | Minimum |
| test**  | requ    | TL**    | number  | good    | factor  | Test    |
|         | irement |         | of bad  | unit    | M**     | time    |
|         | (ER)**  | **      | re      | will    |         | \[s\]** |
|         |         | (ER)=** | sults** | fail**  |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         | **Note  |
|         |         | **      |         | **=     |         | 1**     |
|         |         | Minimum |         | Prob    |         |         |
|         |         | requ    |         | that    |         |         |
|         |         | irement |         | bad     |         |         |
|         |         | (ER)x   |         | unit    |         |         |
|         |         | TL**    |         | will    |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | pass**  |         |         |
|         |         | **TL**  |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | **      |         |         |
|         |         |         |         | \[%\]** |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| De      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| HARQ    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| In      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| dicator |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Channel |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-HICH) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 1       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0.2.1.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Single  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| link    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| perf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ormance |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (10ms   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.01    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test 1) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| False   | 0.5     | 1.127   | NA      | 5       | 1.245   | 16.4    |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2)Note  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2)      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 1       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0.2.1.2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Single  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| link    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| perf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ormance |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (2ms    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.01    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test 1) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| False   | 0.5     | 1.127   | NA      | 5       | 1.245   | 16.4    |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2)Note  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2)      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| De      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Int     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| er-Cell |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| H       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| andover |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ditions |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2.2.1.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RLS not |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| taining |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Serving |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (10ms   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI).   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.05    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test1)  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| False   | 2E-4    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | NA      |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 30,Test |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2)      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2.2.1.2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RLS not |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| taining |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Serving |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (2ms    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.05    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test 1) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| False   | 2E-4    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | NA      |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test 2) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2.2.2.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RLS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| taining |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Serving |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (10ms   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.05    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Test   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1,      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| VA30)   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| False   | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 164s    |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Test   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2,PA3)  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| False   | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 4.1     |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Test   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3,      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| VA120)  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10.     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2.2.2.2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| RLS     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| taining |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Serving |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (2ms    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.05    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Test   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1,      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| VA30)   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| False   | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 164     |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Test   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2, PA3) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| False   | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 4.1     |
| ACK     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Test   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 3,      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| VA120)  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| De      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| R       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| elative |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Grant   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Channel |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-RGCH) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 1       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0.3.1.1 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Single  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| link    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| perf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ormance |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (10ms   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.05    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| UP/DOWN |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test 1) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| HOLD    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 30,Test |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2)      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 1       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 0.3.1.2 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Single  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| link    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| perf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ormance |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (2ms    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| TTI)    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.05    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| UP/DOWN |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test 1) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| HOLD    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (VA30,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Test 2) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10.3.2  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| De      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Int     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| er-Cell |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| H       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| andover |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ditions |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.005   | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| HOLD    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Test   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1)      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.05    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| DOWN    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Test   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2)      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 10.4    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Demod   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ulation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E-DCH   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| A       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| bsolute |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Grant   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Channel |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (E-AGCH |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Missed  | 0.01    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 16.4    |
| de      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tection |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prob    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ability |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (Test   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 1)      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 11.2    | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 164     |
| Demod   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ulation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of MTCH |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 11.2A   | 0.1     | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 164     |
| Demod   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ulation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of MTCH |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| -       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| E       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nhanced |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Perf    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ormance |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Requi   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rements |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Type 1  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 11.3    | 0.05    | 1.236   | 154     | 5       | 1.5     | 164     |
| Demod   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ulation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of MTCH |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cell    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| identif |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ication |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Note 1: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| minimum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| due to  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| prop    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| agation |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| con     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ditions |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| c       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| onstant |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ov      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| errides |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| due to  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| stat    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| istical |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| r       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| easons. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| time    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| due to  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| stat    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| istical |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| reasons |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| v       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ariable |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| depends |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| on the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| quality |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of the  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| DUT.    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Justif  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ication |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| given   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| clause  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| F       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .6.1.6. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Note 2: |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| No      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| early   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| d       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ecision |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| d       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| esigned |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| in this |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| test.   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Sample  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 16.4 s. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Then    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| decide  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the ER  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| against |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the TL. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| The     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| limit   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ratio   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 10      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 2/181=0 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| .563536 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
